T his appendix is intended to be used with the vehicle rules found in the supplement InTo The sToRm . It details some of the void-capable fighters, bombers, and other [Small Craft](attack-craft-small-craft.md) available to Explorers, as well as their foes. Even without InTo The sToRm , this information can be useful both as background and statistics on the capabilities of individual vehicles. All of these vessels are spacecraft, and several of them are bombers as well-craft intended to [Attack](combat-attack-rules.md) enemy capital ships. In the interests of simplicity, both of these rules are printed once at the beginning of this appendix, rather than separately in each entry . Spacecraft: This vehicle may exit the atmosphere. While in the atmosphere it may operate as a skimmer or [Flyer](character-traits.md) at the pilot's choice. It gains all benefits and drawbacks of skimmers and flyers. If operating as a flyer, it must be moving at least half its cruising speed at all times lest it begin a terminal dive to the earth below. In either case, if it becomes completely immobilised due to [Damage](character-injury.md), count the vehicle as destroyed instead as it crashes to the ground.

Bomber: This ship's payload is a complement of anti-ship [Weapons](weapons-general.md). These weapons cannot be effectively aimed at 'small' targets such as other vehicles or individuals, though if one were to hit such a target, they would be immediately destroyed. These weapons could be used in bombing runs against fixed emplacements or other large, immobile ground targets, in which case the areas of effect would be scores of metres across, and the damage dealt on par with powerful anti-[Armour](armour.md) weapons such as lascannons.



*Source:* `Battle Fleet of the Koronus, page 141`
