Certain  rare  vessels  have  been  known  to  carry  a  variant  of normal bombers known collectively as torpedo bombers. Each torpedo bomber forgoes its normal payload in favour of a single comparatively small torpedo, which it can launch at any point. While seldom as destructive as a true bombing [Run](rules-combat-overview.md), the technique can allow for torpedo attacks to come from an unexpected angle.

Instead  of  performing  bombing  runs,  Torpedo  Bombers may, at the start of any turn instead of their normal movement, launch  their  [Torpedoes](weapons-torpedoes.md).  The  torpedoes  immediately  move directly forwards in whatever direction the bombers were facing,  following  all  the  normal  rules  for  torpedoes. Each  torpedo  bomber  can  launch  one  torpedo.  A squadron  of  torpedo  bombers  is  comprised  of three torpedo bombers.Torpedo  bombers  can  launch  any  type  of  torpedo,  however any torpedo launched from a torpedo bomber has its range halved, as the bombers cannot haul torpedoes with a full load of [Fuel](weapons-ammunition.md). In addition, due to their rarity , [Acquisition Tests](economy-acquisition-rules.md) to acquire bombers with torpedo fittings suffer a -5 penalty in addition to any other modifiers. There is also the matter of storing the torpedoes if the starship  does  not  have  the  stowage  that  comes  with  a  T orpedo Tube Component. A typical [Munitorium](starship-supplemental-components.md) can store nine torpedoes on a ship of [Light Cruiser](starship-anatomy-detailed.md) [Size](character-traits.md) or larger, or six on a smaller vessel. One could also store a comparable number in a cargo hold, but the lack of safe storage means the torpedoes have a 25% chance of detonating should that Component become damaged or destroyed (see page 37 for rules on what this might do to a vessel).



*Source:* `Battle Fleet of the Koronus, page 14`
