Operating  a  carrier  is  a  complex  matter,  and  many  vessels employ  a  dedicated  crew  to  oversee  the  minutia  of  these operations.  No  launch  bay  remains  at  a  constant  level  of complete  readiness.  Craft  are  ritually  placed  into  hangarvaults, their machine spirits slumbering until they are called upon once more, while the deck crews work to ensure that the launch mechanisms and [Fuel](weapons-ammunition.md) systems function properly, check the [Ammunition](economy-wealth-and-acquisitions.md) stores, and perform a thousand other minor tasks needed to ensure that the launch bay works smoothly. Preparing a launch bay for operations is a complex process requiring many men to unload and awaken the craft needed, and to ensure that they are fuelled and armed as required.

Outside  of  battle,  this  can  be  done  slowly  and  carefully , taking the time necessary to ensure that no mistakes are made. This is fortunate, as many shuttles and lighters are stubborn and recalcitrant in spirit compared to the fierce and eager spirits of [Attack Craft](attack-craft-rules.md), and thus take some time to coerce into service. A starship may have one squadron per point of Launch Bay Strength prepared and [Ready](rules-combat-overview.md) for launch at any one time.

In the midst of battle, things are a little more hectic, and preflight preparations are afforded much less time. In combat, this takes an Extended Action in which the character performing the Extended Action makes an Ordinary (+10) Command Test in  order  to  make  new  squadron  ready  for  operations. The maximum number of [Squadrons](squadrons-overview.md) that may be made ready

*Source:* `Battle Fleet of the Koronus, page 11`
