## Lord-captain

There are times when a Rogue Trader simply must have something. Whether it's emergency repairs to his ship, a rare and wondrous artefact at an auction or purchasing all of a certain commodity in a system to stymie rival traders, sometimes  a  Trader  must  stretch  his  wealth  quite  thin indeed to get what he wants. In a situation where a player doesn't  have  the  luxury  of  waiting,  haggling  or  being outbid,  he  can  permanently  burn  Profit  Factor  to  ensure that he is successful on an Acquisition Test. For every one point of Profit Factor burned, a player receives +10 to his Acquisition test. Unlike overstretching your Profit Factor for an Upkeep Test, where the loss is temporary and exists until  the  player  unloads,  downgrades  or  downsizes  an acquisition,  Profit  Factor  used  to  ensure  success  is  gone permanently.  This  permanent  loss  could  be  explained  in a number of ways, from the selling off of investments to calling  in  favours,  and  reflects  an  outlay  of  wealth  and influence  so  great  that  it  reduces  a  player's  purchasing power until he can find new sources of income.

### Why Roles?

Lidiah limps her ship Litvyak back to Port Wander after a tangle with an Ork raiding ship. Holed in numerous places, leaking fuel and oxygen, half-blind and with thousands of crewmen dead, the Litvyak is in terribly sorry shape and looking at least six months in dry dock to complete repairs. This is completely unacceptable to Lidiah, as it means the almost certain loss of two lucrative trade routes to a rival Rogue Trader. She decided that Cost is No Object in ensuring that her ship gets into and out of dry dock in record time so as not to lose a single Throne from her threatened trade routes. Lidiah permanently burns five points of Profit Factor for a +50 modifier to her Acquisition Test to acquire repair services, resupply  and  new  crew  members.  Thrones  are  spread  liberally around, favours called in, heads broken and press gangs run day and  night  to  get  the  Litvyak  back  on  her  feet.  Lidiah  succeeds on her Acquisition Test with a number of degrees of success, and within two months the Litvyak is back in the spacelanes, good as new and with a full complement.

223### Career Preference

Influence  and  Reputation  are  just  as  important  to  a  Rogue Trader as are his ship and lucky side arm. Indeed, these are large parts of what make up his Profit Factor. Aside from the raw  currency,  investments  and  other  such  things,  a  Rogue Trader's  reputation  and  his  ability  to  leverage  both  money and reputation into influence is what allows him to get ahead in  the  cut  throat  world  of  pan-galactic  commerce.  What happens when a Rogue Trader is outside of his usual sphere of  operations,  though?  With  as  vast  as  the  Imperium  is,  a player simply cannot expect to be recognised everywhere he goes.  When  operating  in  dark  and  heathen  corners  of  the Galaxy where the light of the God-Emperor has only recently reached, or perhaps not reached at all, how often can a Rogue Trader expect to hear the correct answer to the question, 'Do you know who I am?'

When  operating  outside  of  their  usual  territory,  Game Masters should consider adding negative modifiers to Explorers' Influence tests. This could reflect the fact that the Rogue Trader is a newcomer on the galactic scene and word of his exploits hasn't spread all that far, or that the part of space he's operating in is so isolated and backwards that the inhabitants  continually  ask  the  Explorers  for  news  of  the wider  Imperium.  Whatever  the  case,  the  Explorers  will  be unable to use their Profit Factor to make friends and influence people as easily as they could in, say, Port Wander. Modifiers between -10 and -30 should be sufficient, but as always the amount of the modifier and when it's applied is solely up to the Game Master.

### Examples of Immediate Subordinates

Lidiah  has  made  contact  with  an  isolated  world  in  the  Calixis Sector that happens to be home to a rare breed of Grox that could fetch quite a bit of money at market. Lidiah and her officers brush and shine their best uniforms, and present themselves to the planet's governor.  Since  the  planet  is  so  isolated  and  benighted,  the  Game Master declares that Lidiah is -30 to any Influence Tests in dealing with  the  governor  and  his  ministers.  She  and  her  officers  make  a grand entrance to the governor's audience chamber, broadcasting a palpable air of confidence and importance. Aware of her penalty, Lidiah decides to take the chance and make an Influence Test to give the introductions the proper gravity. She begins her introductions, making sure to linger on her association with her trading dynasty and  their  storied  history,  and  makes  her  Influence  Test.  She  rolls poorly,  with  one  level  of  failure,  and  notices  that  the  governor  is staring  into  space  with  a  smug,  patronising  look  on  his  face.  He turns to say something to one of his advisors as Lidiah is talking, and when she completes her introductions the governor looks back to her and with a bored tone in his voice asks, 'I'm sorry, who did you say you were again?'

### Important Skills

'On this ship, the Captain is your Master, and I am her voice!'

-Bosun Vor aboard the Bansidhe

R oles are positions of command responsibility upon the R oles are positions of command responsibility upon the R Rogue Trader's vessel that can be filled by the player's R Rogue Trader's vessel that can be filled by the player's R characters.  Some  Roles  are  weighty  and  traditional R characters.  Some  Roles  are  weighty  and  traditional R in  all  Imperial  vessels,  whilst  others  bear  many  names  and emerge only out of necessity. Each Role brings with it the benefits and obligations of rank: subordinates who will accept orders, but whose well-being and protection is an obligation, the recognition of the Rogue Trader's dynasty, and a pledge of fealty that may require much toil to uphold.

Experience in command is important for all Roles to some degree: all are near the top of the hierarchy that is a voidship's crew. The occupants of most Roles must become used to delegating tasks, mastering the internal politics of a crew, and  cultivating  talented  subordinates.  The  subordinates  of some  Roles  include  emissaries  of  great  Imperial  powerstechnically  subordinate  within  the  Rogue  Trader's  crew, but who wield influence beyond the vessel and so must be handled carefully.

Roles are selected by the players at the beginning of the campaign. They should not be switched lightly, as they do represent a hierarchal position aboard a ship. Unless the GM determines otherwise, a player must spend 100 xp to switch roles.

Unlike  most  entries  in  this  book,  Roles  are  organised according to rank, not alphabetically. These ranks should be taken as guidelines for ships operating in the Calixis Sector and Koronus Expanse, not as hard and fast military ranks (and players should not use them as an excuse to try and give orders to other players), but they can be used to delineate hierarchy .

It is important to note, Ship Roles should not automatically be used to determine who performs what Actions in Space Combat.  For  example,  if  a  ship  has  an  Explorer  as  LordCaptain  and  an  NPC  as  Master  Helmsman,  it  is  perfectly acceptable  for  the  Explorer  to  be  performing  Manoeuvre Actions,  especially  if  he  is  better  than  the  NPC  (which  is likely!).  Such  situations  can  be  roleplayed  by  assuming  the Explorer  is  directing  the  actions  of  the  subordinate  NPC closely, lending his weighty expertise in important manners.

### Benefits

The first rank has only one entry: the Lord-Captain, master of the ship.

*Source:* `Battle Fleet of the Koronus, pages 224–225`
