There are few things sweeter than a hard won victory. Players can declare themselves victorious in their Warfare Endeavour when they have accumulated the required victory points and met all stated [Victory Conditions](combat-victory-conditions.md). While the players can afford to fail at one or two of the Endeavour's component [Objectives](economy-endeavours.md), as the victory point deficit can be made up with side quests, they absolutely have to meet their stated victory conditions or the Endeavour will fail.

Aside  from  the  loss  of  lives  and  money,  losing  a  war may  have  all  sorts  of  associated  deleterious  effects  on  the Rogue Trader, his associates, and possible even his dynasty. His reputation among his colleagues and any investors may be irreparably harmed, as no one likes a loser. He could be pursued by forces that vanquished him, hounded across the Expanse with demands for reparations or threats of revenge. He could even in very rare cases when working for or closely with Imperial forces, lose his Warrant of Trade altogether. He could see it revoked by The Administratum for any number of  real  or  trumped-up  grievances  as  the  leadership  of  the Imperium hates looking bad and having their resources and good graces squandered by poor commanders. In the event of  a  failed  Warfare  Endeavour,  the  GM  should  feel  free  to impose any and all penalties on the players as he sees fit. After all, no one can wage war and not suffer consequences.

*Source:* `Battle Fleet of the Koronus, page 140`
