If the engines are the beating heart of a ship, the command decks are  its  brain.  Several  of  the  command  decks  are  given  over  to officer's quarters ranging from small cabins for Ensigns to whole suites of rooms for [Captains](imperial-starship-types.md) and Admirals. Command decks are built to a grand scale with long corridors, majestic stairways and colonnaded  halls  cunningly  wrought  to  overawe  the  viewer.  In places,  tall  windows  and  great  observation  blisters  guarded  by armoured shutters give views across the [Hull](starship-anatomy-detailed.md) of the ship and into the void beyond. It's common for stone and even wood to be used extensively  throughout  the  command  decks  to  give  the  place  a sense of permanence and timeless strength. Indeed when walking across the worn marble slabs of some great basilica it can be hard to believe the structure is not resting squarely on terra firma.

The  command  decks  often  include  the  ship's  archive-a densely-packed librarium filled with log entries, communications, requisitions, warrants, commissions and a thousand other pieces of trivia. The chart rooms are found at the base of the [Navigation Spires](components-navigation-spires.md),  centuries  of  accumulated  ciphers  and  ancient  charts jealously  guarded by silent seneschals. Many ships have entire trophy halls resplendent with images of famous actions the ship has  participated  in,  portraits  of  previous  captains,  mementos from defeated enemies, and graven battle honours lining walls. All Navy ships have a Ministorum chapel aboard, whether a tiny room with a shrine or a vaulted hall big enough to hold the entire crew . In either case voxcasters and pict-players are on hand to relay sermons to every corner of the ship when the crew give due praise to the God-Emperor for their continuing survival.

Surmounting everything  else  is  the  ship's  bridge  and  the [Captain](rank-captain.md)'s cupola. The bridge is dominated by ranks of muttering [Servitors](crew-servitors.md) and ticking cogitators monitoring the myriad functions of the ship. Rows of niches rise on every side filled with arcane machinery and its attendant votaries. Uniformed officers stride among the lobotomised slave-servitors and tech-priests issuing the hundreds of individual [Orders](combat-orders.md) necessary to keep everything functioning optimally. High above in the captain's cupola the senior officers and the Captain himself reside. From here they observe  the  progress  of  the  ship  in  a  vast  holo-tank,  assess augur sightings, monitor readiness levels and plot the vessel's course through the void.



*Source:* `Battle Fleet of the Koronus, page 51`
