Voidsmen (also  referred  to  by  the  more  archaic  'shipmen'  on some  Imperial  Navy  vessels)  are  those  ship's  crew  with  some training and skill, the [Ratings](crew-ratings.md) most likely to be entrusted with tasks such as conduit-maintenance, bulwark repairs, cog polishing, or other jobs that might require some skill and autonomy . Hiveworlders are favoured as voidsmen due to their familiarity with technology and the fact that they are inured to the worst of the noise and claustrophobic conditions found on ships. However, a [Captain](rank-captain.md) sometimes has to take what he can get so a crew can become an eclectic mix of feral barbarians, agri-world farmers and cynical hive-worlders by the end of a long cruise.

The lowest ranking voidsmen are given the most mundane drudgery. However, those who are smart, lucky, and dutiful may [Advance](combat-advance-action.md)  in  rank  after  many  years  of  service.  On  many  ships, these  individuals  are  called  able  voidsmen,  the  title  officially acknowledging their skill and experience. Some [Captains](imperial-starship-types.md) require examinations  be  passed  to  achieve  able  voidman  rating  while others simply bestow it as a marker for time served onboard.

Occasionally, a voidsman with both brains and ambition may become a leading voidsman. Officially, leading voidsmen are  simply  those  placed  in  [Charge](rules-combat-overview.md)  of  work  gangs  but unofficially many officers use it as a proving ground for those under consideration to be [Warrant Officers](ranks-warrant-officers.md). Needless to say, only a very rare few reach this point.

*Source:* `Battle Fleet of the Koronus, page 71`
