### Throne Gelt

Most kinds of wealth in the Expanse are measured in the Imperial currency of Throne Gelt, the coin of exchange in the  nearby  Calixis  Sector.  One  of  a  number  of  sector  and Segmentum based Imperial currencies whose value directly relates  to  the  Administratum's  audits,  the  worth  of  Throne Gelt  is  secured  against  the  massive  riches  generated  by Imperial planetary tithes, and is locally issued in the form of coins known as Thrones.

### Profit Factor

Counting  Thrones  is  work  for  commoners  and  a  Rogue Trader's [Staff](weapons-general.md) of scribes and factors. A Rogue Trader stands far above the tyranny of coin that grips lesser men, causing them to return to their purse many times a day to count and wonder whether they can afford their next meal. Instead, a Rogue Trader gauges what he can afford to acquire and then support over time-be that a personal weapon, a company of  mercenaries,  a  thousand  lasguns,  a  vortex  torpedo,  or  a set of rare gems-by the magnitude of his Profit Factor. The greater the wealth generated by his mission, as catalogued by his  loyal  scribes,  and  the  greater  his  intangible  power  over the Imperial class, the more he can own. Supporting larger collections of items or retainers of greater [Availability](economy-availability-rules.md) requires correspondingly greater values for Profit Factor. See Chapter IX:  Playing  the  Game on page  270 for  an  explanation of  Profit  Factor  and  the  rules  that  govern  how  a  Rogue Trader uses these values to make acquisitions of property and retained services.

## Ammunition

Without ammunition a gun is just a glorified club, but a Rogue Trader's servants ensure that the [Weapons](weapons-general.md) he, his retinue, and his crew use are kept in supply with the default ammunition type-[Bullets](weapons-ammunition.md) for solid [Shot](weapons-ammunition.md) [Weapons](weapons-general.md), grenades for launchers, shells  for  shotguns,  [Charge](rules-combat-overview.md)  packs  for  las  weapons,  fuel  for flamers, melta canisters for melta weapons, containment flasks of dangerous, volatile photonic hydrogen for plasma weapons, and so on.

In Rogue TRadeR ,  making  an  [Acquisition](economy-acquisition-rules.md)  of  a  weapon includes the organisation of an ongoing supply of the default type of ammunition. A character can carry as much ammunition as he feels is needed on a given expedition, and can re-supply on return to the Rogue Trader's base of operations.

## Upgrades and Unusual Ammunition

Sometimes a weapon has one or more [Upgrades](components-upgrades.md), or makes use of an unusual or rare form of ammunition. See page 271 for an explanation as to how this affects the use of Profit Factor to acquire it.

*Source:* `Roguetrader Corerulebook, pages 113–114`
