Jarring Blow:

The impact tosses the vehicle around, throwing anything inside about the interior

- 1-2 compartments. Any crew or passengers who are not strapped in or otherwise secured must make an Ordinary (+10) Toughness Test or be stunned for 1d5 Rounds. All shooting from the vehicle during the next Round suffers ±20 to hit as aims are knocked askew and shots go wide.

3 Staggered: A direct hit on the armour surrounding the driver's compartment leaves the pilot stunned and reeling. He must pass a Challenging (+0) Toughness Test or become stunned and unable to drive or pilot for 1d5 Rounds. A ground vehicle comes to a screeching halt, a skimmer will drift in the direction it last moved at its acceleration, while a Àyer will slowly tip over and begin a terminal dive unless the pilot comes to his senses and rights the aircraft.

- 4 Weapon Destroyed: A randomly selected weapon on the vehicle is hit by the blast, twisted and melted beyond repair. The weapon no longer functions, and there is a 25  chance of the weapon's ammo cooking off. If it does so, roll damage against the vehicle and any gunners manning the weapon as if the destroyed weapon had hit them, halving all damage rolled.

5

- Drive Damaged: The hit tears off a tread, penetrates an air intake, or tears into the grav generator housing, doing severe damage. Reduce the vehicle's tactical speed by 2d10 (and the cruising speed by half). If this brings the tactical speed to 0, the vehicle is immobilised. Ground vehicles shudder to a halt, while skimmers and Àyers crash into the ground, which could be a problem if they're at a high enough altitude.
- 6 Penetrating Hit: The hit tears through the vehicle's armour, leaving only useless shards of metal. Reduce the vehicle's AP on this facing by half. If the attack was a ranged weapon, the shot rips through the interior of the vehicle as well. Each passenger and crew member has a 20 percent chance of being hit by the same shot and taking half of the rolled damage. In addition, the vehicle is now open to the outside, which could be a problem if the vehicle is in a poisonous atmosphere, underwater, or in a vacuum.
- 7 Fire: The vehicle catches fire as its fuel stores ignite or power reserves overload. Anyone inside must make a Difficult (-10) Agility Test or catch on fire every Round they are inside the vehicle. In addition, each round there is a 20 percent chance the vehicle will explode.

The hit wrecks the vehicle, turning it into a shattered hulk. Anyone inside the vehicle takes

Destroyed:

- 8-9 2d10 explosive damage, and must make a Difficult (-10) Toughness Test or be stunned for 1d10 Rounds. Skimmers or Àyers crash to the ground or go into a terminal dive, depending on their altitude at the time. Hope there are enough grav-chutes to go around...

Explodes: A direct hit to ammo stores, fuel tanks or another vital portion of the vehicle turns it into a raging fireball. Anyone inside takes 5d10 Explosive damage. Anyone within 2d10 meters of the vehicle suffers 2d10 explosive damage from the explosion. If the vehicle has an open top, sides, or hatches,

- 10 passengers or crew may make a Dodge Reaction to bail out at the last second. If they succeed they only take 2d10 Explosive damage.

Note: depending on the contents of the vehicle, the GM may enhance the explosion's radius and or damage as he sees fit.

a Critical Hit. Future damage is still applied to the vehicle's remaining Structural Integrity, and rolls on the Critical Hit Chart generated by Righteous Fury are not cumulative with actual Critical Hits.

Certain  vehicles  are  extremely  tough  and  sturdy,  and possess a quality called Reinforced Hull . A vehicle with a Reinforced Hull is unlikely to fall apart even when subjected to  the  most  punishing  fire. Therefore,  when  a  vehicle with  a  Reinforced  Hull  receives  a  Critical  Hit,  halve the result, rounding up. For example, a vehicle that takes a '6' Critical (Penetrating Hit), it actually suffers a '3' Critical (Staggered). This quality does not affect rolls on the Critical Hit chart generated by Righteous Fury.



*Source:* `Into the Storm, page 179`
