It is not uncommon to find Rogue Trader mercenaries. The mercenary  life  appeals  to  Rogue  Traders  for  a  number  of reasons. Perhaps their dynasty was in decline and they needed the Thrones. Perhaps they love the thrill of battle. Perhaps they  fight  for  some  other,  unknown  reason.  In  any  case, Rogue Traders tend  to  make  excellent  heads  of  mercenary companies. They typically have the martial knowledge and the leadership needed to command men, and the resources to  equip  and  support  them.  Any  Rogue  Trader  wishing  to become a mercenary or start his own private military company should  first,  unless  he  carries  a  Warlord  Warrant,  consider acquiring a Pacto Militis document. If and when he achieves this, which could be a whole set of adventures in and of itself, he can decide whether he'd prefer to gain employment with an  existing  organisation  such  as  the  Brotherhood,  or  enter business for himself.

Either way, the Explorers may find the services of a contract broker valuable. With their broker's help, they should start laying out  their  business  plan,  deciding  whether  to  start  an  actual company or act as a small unit for hire based from their ship. They also will need to draw up a charter stating what kind of work they'll  take,  what,  if  any ,  restrictions  they  will  place  on who  they'll  work  for,  and  the  general  information  found  in the  founding  documents  of  any  business  endeavour.  Once  all the necessary contracts have been signed and bribes paid, they players are [Ready](rules-combat-overview.md) to set out on their new journey as mercenaries.



*Source:* `Battle Fleet of the Koronus, page 130`
