Upon receipt of the Warrant of Trade, a Rogue Trader may be granted command of significant military resources. In many cases these are provided directly by the highest levels of the Imperium, but equally, they may be provided by backers with an interest in the profits the Rogue Trader might bring. As such, many Rogue Traders owe a portion of their profits to these investors. Of course, there are plenty of Rogue Traders who conveniently forget all about this as soon as they pass beyond the Imperium, though these explorers may well find substantial [Rewards](economy-rewards.md) placed for their subsequent capture.

and  roguish,  skilled  diplomats  (some  would  say  confidence tricksters)  and  hardened  killers  when  the  situation  demands. Rogue Traders will often gather an entourage of hangers-on and companions, and this may contain alien warriors, mutants, and  other  undesirables.  Many  in  the  Inquisition  would  take to  marking the Rogue Trader out as a heretic. Many Rogue Traders  have  highly  [Unstable](weapons-general.md)  personalities-some  destroy worlds  on  a  whim  or  experiment  with  alien  species  out  of macabre curiosity.

In appearance Rogue Traders often dress extravagantly, even flamboyantly; each has his own style and manner. They carry the best [Weapons](weapons-general.md) and equipment they can acquire, including all  manner  of  alien  weapons  and  gadgets.  Jokaero  digital weapons are popular with some-miniature lasers and needlers that are worn as rings but contain the same power as a pistol. They might be carrying alien [Phase](character-traits.md) weapons that can bypass [Armour](armour.md), Ha'Kaidan neuro-stars, or one of a million other pieces of strange and bizarre wargear. If the Rogue Trader was once a high-ranking member of The Adeptus Terra, he might wear the finery of Imperial aristocracy mixed with garments from worlds  beyond  the  Emperor's  rule,  often  sporting  a  weapon from Military Service such as a Naval cutlass or officer's [Sabre](rogue-trader-vessel-example.md). Some  carry  ornate  duelling  pistols  in  lacquered  holsters,  or archaic hunting rifles slung rakishly across the shoulder.

Rogue Traders usually return to Imperial space every few years, to unload their [Exotic](weapons-ammunition.md) wares and re-supply, recruit, and rest until the next foray into the [Darkness](combat-special-circumstances.md). During these periods they  may  come  into  conflict  with  members  of  the  Adeptus Terra or The Inquisition. Rogue Traders wield incredible power, and it  is  easy  for  them  to  forget  that  once  back  within  the Imperium, they do not have free rein to act as they wish. This strident attitude will draw attention from the authorities.

Many  Rogue  Traders  dispute  the  right  of  the  Imperium to exercise authority over them. As men who have wandered amongst alien stars and conversed with all manner of cultures, Rogue Traders are viewed as susceptible to all kinds of heresies, from wayward philosophies to infection by alien creatures or possession by warp entities that live in the [Darkness](combat-special-circumstances.md) between stars.  All  of  these  factors  can  lead  to  violent  confrontation, particularly if the Rogue Trader has knowledge or an artefact that others covet.

## The Warrant of Trade

By  dint  of  the  fact  that  the  vast  majority  of  space  travel  is tightly controlled by the Segmentum Fortresses, the Imperium is able to impose a great degree of control over the movement of its subjects. The Imperium being spread out across such a vast region of the galaxy, it lacks discrete borders and is defined more by [The Warp](warp-imperial-space-travel.md) routes that connect individual Sectors. On The Fringes of Wilderness Space, the populations of isolated or neglected worlds do interact with alien cultures, trading with them or taking up common cause against a mutual foe. For the  most  part,  however,  humanity  is  fearful  and  untrusting of  the  alien  and  non-Imperial  cultures,  taught  from  birth that  Mankind  is  possessed  of  a  manifest  destiny  to  rule  the stars,  and  that  contact  with  outsiders  brings  at  best  moral pollution, and at worst world-razing devastation. Contact with proscribed cultures is therefore forbidden, by ancient decree, to be undertaken only at the very highest levels as sanctioned by The High Lords of Terra and their duly appointed servants.

Despite the general prohibition against dealings beyond the Imperium, The High Lords of Terra long ago recognised the value of expanding the borders of Humanity's domains. The  Warrant  of  Trade  issued  to  all  Rogue  Traders grants not only the permission to go beyond the Imperium's borders, but to deal with who or whatever might be out there with the full### The Battle of Jade Reach

In  691.M41,  the  Imperial  Navy  [Cruiser](starship-anatomy-detailed.md)  Wrote  for  Luck  set  out  on  a  routine  patrol  of  the  zones  near  the  Koronus Expanse, accompanied by a squadron of escorts. Near the Drusus Marches at the trailing edge of The Calixis Sector, the flotilla intercepted an Astropathic distress call from an Adeptus Mechanicus survey vessel and diverted to investigate. En route  to  the  explorators'  location,  the  Wrote  for  Luck  received  more  distress  calls,  indicating  a  significant  Ork incursion. Although he could discern only part of the situation, the [Ship's Master](crew-role-ships-master.md) determined that his small force would be insufficient to tackle [The Orks](faction-ork-overview.md), and so he issued a call for aid from any nearby Imperial forces. To his great [Surprise](starship-combat-rules.md), three entire Rogue Trader flotillas answered his broadcast, and three days later, the combined force crushed the Ork fleet utterly in an action that has since become known as the Battle of Jade Reach. This was the first recorded instance of Imperial Navy and Rogue Trader forces working together in such a manner in over two centuries, and the after-action reports are required reading for Imperial [Navy Officer](rules-allies-enemies-rivals.md) cadets in The Calixis Sector.

authority  of  the  Senatorum  Imperialis,  the  High  Lords.  The Warrant also elevates the recipient to the highest of ranks to which a servant may rise, granting him equivalent status with such men and women as Imperial Commanders, Inquisitors and Space Marine Chapter Masters. They are granted the power to deal with such peers of the Imperium as equals, and the Warrant allowing them to call upon what aid they can negotiate.

While  the  Warrant  of  Trade  confers  upon  its  bearer tremendous  privileges,  it  is  when  the  Rogue  Trader  passes beyond the borders of the Imperium that the true power of the Warrant becomes manifest. Within the Imperium, Rogue Traders move within the established power structures of the Imperium.  Outside  of  the  Imperium,  Rogue  Traders  define those  structures  themselves.  Indeed,  it  has  been  said  that the Rogue Trader speaks with the authority of the Emperor Himself beyond the Fringes.

Furthermore, the Warrant of Trade grants enormous rights to the recipient, allowing him to claim by conquest whatever worlds and privileges he may obtain in whatever manner he wishes  to  do  so.  Many  Rogue  Traders  use  the  Warrant  to conquer or colonise newly discovered planets, taking up the role of Imperial [Commander](rank-commander.md) and thus pushing outwards the Imperium's borders. Others use the Warrant to gain exclusive trade  rights  with  newly  discovered  cultures,  earning  for themselves unimaginable riches and establishing the foundation of powerful noble lines.



*Source:* `Roguetrader Corerulebook, pages 322–323`
