Rogue Traders are known for the extreme nature of their lives, from risky smuggling runs to facing down alien warfleets to closed-room deals for the fate of entire star systems, but even they would cringe from using these archeotech mechanisms. Warp Jump Packs come under a variety of names and in a multitude of shapes, but are usually worn as a backpack under heavy clothing or a cloak. No sane person would deliberately use one unless it was an emergency of the direst sort, for these packs allow the user to make short teleports (usually no more than several hundred meters) through the Warp, unprotected by  a  Gellar  Field  or  other  warding  device.  Even  these short-range jumps though the warp are incredibly risky, and  often  those  teleported  are  never  heard  from again, or appear far away from their target spot. Far worse fates await those who are attacked by the unholy creatures that reside in that unreal dimension. Despite these perils they are highly soughtafter, and there are always those with more thrones than sense ready to buy one. Teleportation Packs allow the user to make a Movement of up to 4d10 meters-the wearer will always emerge on solid footing and in a suitable empty space. If three of the four dice come up with the same number (e.g. three threes), then the user does not re-emerge for 1d5 Rounds and gains 1 Corruption point from exposure to strange energies. If all four dice come up as the same number, then the user suffers 1d5 Insanity Points as well.



*Source:* `Into the Storm, page 141`
