'You are strong. It will be good to have that strength.'

-Awkrin Ghorank, Shaper of the Bloodhawk Kindred

T he Kroot homeworld of Pech lies within the Ultima Segmentum,  not  far  from  the  Tau  Empire.  On  this world,  massive  evergreen  forests  of  the  hardy  jagga tree cover most of the prime continent. The other regions of Pech that are not covered by forest are mainly inhospitable ranges of rock cliffs and jagged mountains. It is from Pech's deep forests that the Kroot originated, and there, they live within arboreal colonies in family groups known as Kindreds, led  by  wise  and  ancient  Kroot  called  Shapers.  Most  make their  homes,  nestled  amongst  the  higher  branches  of  the trees, from animal hides and regurgitated dead wood pulp.

The Kroot are a tall race, averaging two metres in height, and their lanky frames have a deceptively fragile appearance. In reality , Kroot musculature is composed of dense fibre spindles that  are  extremely  efficient  and  powerful.  This  structure possesses a higher power to mass ratio than humans, and rapid muscle contractions create a whiplash effect-meaning that a Kroot can deliver a rapid series of powerful blows. Kroot can hop from tree  to  tree  with  great  speed,  and  on  the  ground they move with a hopping, bounding gait that eats up distance. Kroot are clearly evolved from avian stock, possessing a light but strong bone structure, a quill-like 'ruff,' and a beak.

The Kroot remain a primitive culture in many ways. They favour harnesses worked from animal hides and often adorn themselves  with  bones,  handcrafted  amulets,  and  circlets. Kroot culture reflects the savage environment of their originthey  are  fierce  and  ruthless  warriors  with  few  scruples, but  they  possess  many  noble  qualities  as  well.  Kroot  are courageous, tenacious, and often proud. They are well-known for  honouring any agreement to the letter. Kroot are often confused by advanced technology, but they learn quickly and have adapted to many improvements made to gear that they are already familiar with, such as the enhanced ammunition and the Kroot rifles  adapted  to  fire  that  ammunition,  both provided by the Tau.

The most infamous habit of the Kroot is their preference for eating the flesh of the dead. Even in the midst of combat, Kroot  will  often  ritually  devour  the  corpses  of  those  they have killed, and there is almost nothing beyond their tastes.

The Kroot digestive system is a marvel of efficiency, capable of breaking down almost any organic material into a form of energy stored in specialised organs called nymunes scattered throughout their bodies. By far, the strangest quirk of Kroot digestion  is  their  ability  to  extract  potentially  useful  strands of  their  food's  DNA.  Much  of  the  double-helix  structure  of the Kroot's own DNA is somehow 'blank,' used to separate those areas that do contain useful genetic information. The Kroot have inherited a unique mutation that gives them the ability to incorporate useful DNA codes into their own  genetic  structure.  With  guidance  from  the Shapers,  successive  generations  of  Kroot  may exhibit special qualities of those gene-codes.The presence of the Kroot in the Koronus Expanse is an intriguing  mystery.  Whilst  the  Shapers  have  not  answered questions  on  the  subject,  it  is  rumoured  that  a  number  of Kroot  Warspheres  entered  the  Expanse  via  a  previouslyunknown warp gate-a gate that somehow links the Expanse to the vastly distant Eastern Fringe.



*Source:* `Into the Storm, page 48`
