In many ways Port Wander operates like its own city, and over the many years of existence has adopted its own unique holidays to accompany the standard Imperial and Calixian dates. These include:

- Feast of the Alignment-This marks the date the Navy regained control of the station. It is a grand holiday for Naval personnel, with double rations and amasec for the ratings as well as a huge feast for the officers. Unsurprisingly, the civilian population does not celebrate it with the same fervour.
- Salvation Day-A celebration to mark the end of the siege from Waaagh! Gulgrog, who surrounded the port with a huge fleet in 422.M41. Unlike many of the other festival days, it is marked with some degree of acrimony as many of the Rogue Trader fleets refused to come to the port's aid in these dark times, finding it more profitable to stay out of the conflict or request impossible fees for their efforts. The vile greenskins had almost brought the station to collapse with constant bombardment and fighter attacks until the valiant Imperial Navy came to the rescue. It is common for many a toast to be raised to Battlefleet Calixis on this day, and for many a drink to be poured on the floor at the mention of any of the Rogue Traders who demonstrated their true colours during the conflict.
- Discovery Day-A somewhat fanciful holiday 'honouring' Rogue Trader Vivaldi Jontur's 'discovery' of the Rubycon system. It is celebrated in a humorous fashion mostly by the station's civilians, who spend the day searching for lost items or cleverly hiding things from their friends. On occasion, however, this has been used as a cover to steal valuables with the thieves claiming they 'were only celebrating' should they be caught.
- Comet Fall-This happens whenever a comet comes near the station. Though it is probably stripped of most of its ice by that time, there is still plenty to be harvested if it is large enough. Most of the comet miners gather at the port for a collective effort, and indulge in friendly rivalries to see which clans can mine the most water before the remains drift too far from the station. Days of hard work take place, with much feasting and camaraderie to follow, and additional water rations are available throughout the port in the weeks thereafter.
- Opening of the Maw-This day of feasting celebrates the successful return of Purity Lathimon from the Expanse, opening the way for reliable passage through the Maw. This is often celebrated by feasting, though other, more sinister excesses are also prevalent. It has become a matter of honour for some nobility to provide the most exotic delicacies or darkest indulgences from the distant corners of the Expanse, resulting in a influx of smuggling in the weeks before.



*Source:* `Into the Storm, page 242`
