Rogue TRadeR can be a game of sweeping plots and epic encounters where the fate of worlds and the wealth of entire systems can rest in the hands of the player characters. As a result, it is likely that at one time or another the PCs will find themselves engaged in a pitched battle. There a two ways for the GM to handle mass combats: the detailed method and

the simple method.

## The Detailed Method

This method allows the GM to orchestrate [Combat](rules-combat-overview.md) encounters as he would normally, matching the strength of the antagonists against the strength of the characters and allowing control over  tactics  and  individual  [Combat](rules-combat-overview.md)  actions.  To  use  this method, the GM should group similar combatants on both sides into 'units.' A unit should comprise of between 3 and 20 combatants. For [Example](rules-tests.md), if the characters where accompanied by an Imperial Guard company of 40 guardsmen with lasguns, 6 guardsmen heavy bolter weapon teams, and 20 guardsmen veterans  with  shotguns,  these  would  be  divided  into  four units.  A  unit  functions  just  like  a  single  individual  armed with the most common [Weapons](weapons-general.md) and [Armour](armour.md) of the unit and with [Wounds](character-injury.md) equal to its number of members plus a [Damage](character-injury.md) bonus equal to +1 for every 4 members-so in the [Example](rules-tests.md) above, this would count as: 2 guardsman with lasguns and 20 Wounds each with a +5 damage bonus, a guardsman with a heavy bolter with 12 Wounds and a +3 damage bonus, and a veteran guardsman with a [Shotgun](weapons-general.md) and 20 Wounds and a +5 damage bonus. The GM can then play out the combat using the normal rules for combat with the following exceptions:

-  Units always go after individuals (PCs, powerful creatures, etc.) in the [Initiative](starship-combat-rules.md) order.
-  All units act simultaneously in the [Initiative](starship-combat-rules.md) unless a unit has [Surprise](combat-surprise-rules.md) or some other special advantage.
-  When a unit is reduced to 0 wounds it can no longer fight (though at the GM's discretion some of its members might still be alive).
-  Individuals cannot fight units and vice versa-in this case single members of a unit can make attacks on individuals, and individuals can pick out members of a unit.
-  In addition to combat rolls, units make all other tests as a single entity, i.e. [Fear](character-fear-and-damnation.md) tests. Likewise, PCs can use social and [Influence](economy-influence-rules.md) skills on a unit as if it were an individual.

## The Simple Method

This  method  quickly  resolves  mass  combats  with  a  single dice roll for each PC and focuses more on the actions of the PCs  than  their  allies.  The  GM  should  pick  an  appropriate skill for each PC to test based on their role in the battle. For [Example](rules-tests.md)  a  PC  wading  into  the  thick  of  the  fighting  with a [Chainsword](weapons-general.md) would make a Weapon Skill Test, while a PC barking [Orders](combat-orders.md) over a vox would make a Command Skill Test. The difficulty of this test is up to the GM and can be based on the strength of the enemy, the nature of the battlefield, or anything else he thinks might be relevant. The results of these rolls are then handled like any other tests. So the GM might require a combined total of 10 successes for the PCs to win the battle, while 5 successes result in a lesser victory and 0 successes a draw. Failure on a roll might also indicate that the PC takes [Damage](character-injury.md), such as 1d5 for each degree of failure for [Example](rules-tests.md). Note that this arbitrary [Damage](character-injury.md) should never kill the character, only render them severely wounded or incapacitated. If the GM wants to include the effects of the PCs allies in the outcome of the battle, he can make a single appropriate skill roll for them in the same fashion.

*Source:* `Roguetrader Corerulebook, page 293`
