Once [Combat](rules-combat-overview.md) is joined and casualties begin to mount, a unit's effectiveness  and  cohesion  begin  to  deteriorate.  For  every  ten points of Unit Strength lost in combat, a unit loses 1d10 morale. For every twenty Morale lost the unit is -5 to all Characteristic and  Skill  Tests,  and  any  Explorer  operating  in  a  leadership position is -5 to any Command or Fellowship Tests. When a unit reaches half of its maximum morale, it must make a Morale Test by  rolling  under  its  base  morale  to  see  if  morale  is  broken.  A unit that succeeds on its Morale Test continues to fight, but must make another Morale Test if it reaches 25%. If an Explorer with the appropriate skills is embedded with the unit in a command position, he can attempt a Challenging (+0) Command Test to rally the troops and give the unit +10 to any Morale Tests. A unit that fails a Morale Test, or in rare occasions runs out of morale points and is still combat capable, breaks and the remains of the unit flee the battlefield.

A  unit  that  sees  its  Unit  Strength  completely  depleted  is considered  broken  and  unusable  until  replenished,  repaired, and  resupplied.  This  does  not  mean  that  all  soldiers  and combat assets have been destroyed, it simply reflects a complete loss of combat effectiveness due to massive casualties and loss of vehicles, [Weapons](weapons-general.md), and support. This can be accomplished using [Upkeep Tests](economy-acquisition-rules.md), but only if the Explorers have the proper resources (such as more men or weapons) available.



*Source:* `Battle Fleet of the Koronus, page 135`
