While  very  similar  to  standard  [Endeavours](economy-endeavours.md),  War  Endeavours have  some  distinct  structural  differences  that  set  them  apart. Like  standard  endeavours,  they  come  in  three  sizes  and  are composed  of  numerous  smaller  objectives  comprising  both [Combat](rules-combat-overview.md) and support activities. This mix of fighting, planning, and deal making is a reflection of the complex nature of waging war, especially from the point of view of its generals. Where War Endeavours differ from standard Endeavours is in their structure, and in the fact that they can be designed by GMs or players.

GMs can use War Endeavours to build  story  arcs  for  his players to take part in. In this case, GMs are fully responsible for their design of these Endeavours. The players have no part in choosing the [Strategic Goals](mass-combat-strategic-goals.md) or the [Victory Conditions](combat-victory-conditions.md), and very little control over the logistics and tactical goals except as they pertain to the players' stated roles.

Players designing war campaigns do so under the guidance of  the  GM,  and  are  fully  involved  in  every  level  of  the Endeavour's design save for the construction and deployment of NPCs and NPC units such as mercenary companies, enemy belligerents, and forces of The Imperial Guard. GMs will also be  responsible  for  assigning  each  component  objective  a Victory Point value, as well as assigning one to the Endeavour at large. Players are responsible for stating the strategic goals and victory conditions, as well as laying out the logistics and [Tactical Objectives](mass-combat-tactical-objectives.md). Also, depending on whether they are hiring mercenaries, raising Imperial Guard units, or building an army from scratch, they may also be responsible for designing their own military forces using the rules earlier in this section. own military forces using the rules earlier in this section.

GMs and players should use the following checklist to create a quick outline of their Warfare Endeavour. This will allow them to ensure everything gets done and their war goes off without a hitch. GMs and players should use the following checklist to create a quick outline of their Warfare Endeavour. This will allow them to ensure everything gets done and their war goes off without a hitch.

- Declare  Strategic  Goals: Here  players  state  the objective of their war and what they hope to gain from  pursuing  it.  The  amount  of  ambition exhibited  in  the  strategic  goal  can  suggest the actual scope of the war. Deposing a planetary governor is a much smaller ·

<!-- image -->task than cleansing an entire system of xenos [Scum](rules-allies-enemies-rivals.md).

- Determine the Scope of the War (Brushfire, [Campaign](rules-campaign.md), [Theatre](mass-combat-theatre.md)): After declaring their strategic goals, the GM or players now decide how large the scope of the war will be. The scope of the war will determine the number of logistics and tactical goals required, as well how much the war will cost and how great the [Rewards](economy-rewards.md) will be for success.
- Declare [Logistics Objectives](mass-combat-logistics-objectives.md), Tactical Objectives, and Victory  Conditions: Each  [Size](character-traits.md)  of  Warfare  Endeavour requires a certain number of logistics goals, tactical goals, and  victory  conditions  to  succeed.  These  objectives  are similar  to  objectives  in  standard  Endeavours,  and  will have  varying  degrees  of  difficulty  and  importance  to  the Endeavour.
- Tally up Achievement Points: Like in regular Endeavours, Achievement Points are collected throughout the Endeavour by  completing  logistics  and  tactical  objectives  and  any side adventures added to the Endeavour by the GM. Each component objective provides a set number of Achievement Points, dictated at random by the GM or by dividing the total Achievement Point value of the Endeavour as outlined in Table 4-7: War Endeavour Scale.
- Assign Appropriate Warfare Themes to the Component Objectives: Assigning themes to logistics and tactical objectives can further clarify the kinds of resources and  skills  needed  to  complete  them.  By  referring  to  the themes, players can decide what characters, equipment, and resources would be best suited to specific objectives. This increases the chances of success of the component objective, as well as the Endeavour on the whole.



*Source:* `Battle Fleet of the Koronus, page 138`
