Now that the units are assembled, the second step of going to war involves equipping them. While hired mercenaries and Imperial Guard units blessedly come with their own [Weapons](weapons-general.md),  vehicles,  and  other  materiel,  when  a  Rogue Trader  raises  a  unit  from  scratch  he  will  find  himself acting  as  both  warlord  and  supply  officer.  Troops  need a dizzying array of supplies to operate effectively. Along with weapons, vehicles and [Armour](armour.md), units also need food, medical supplies, [Tools](equipment-tools.md), field equipment, uniforms, and all manner of accoutrement to keep them in top shape. This represents a massive outlay of Thrones, typically more than was spent to hire the men. Rogue Traders outfitting  troops  have  two  options  available to them to keep costs down: purchasing in bulk or lowering quality.

Equipping an outfit or army can be made either a Logistical Goal in a war endeavour or set-up as a background endeavour by the players as they do something more important. If [Run](rules-combat-overview.md) as  a  background  endeavour,  there  is  always  the  risk  that something goes awry as the job is entrusted to the players' hirelings.  This  allows  the  GM  to  create  any  appropriate [Complications](ships-npc-vessels.md) that he sees fit, which may pave the way for other adventures or problems within the endeavour. For more information about war and background [Endeavours](economy-endeavours.md), see the Warfare Endeavour section on page 137.



*Source:* `Battle Fleet of the Koronus, page 127`
