In The Calixis Sector, major fleets are more likely to be gathered for planetary invasions than [Fleet Actions](starship-fleet-actions.md). These are typically grim  affairs  for  warships  due  to  the  ever-present  threat  of being holed by a mine or defence laser. Sitting in positions for orbital bombardment leaves ships even more vulnerable to  [Attack](combat-attack-rules.md).  Navy  Doctrine  compensates  for  these  problems with  blunt  application  of  numbers  to  swamp  defences  and ensure total superiority, however temporary. Once a landing has  been  achieved,  elements  of  the  fleet  start  moving  into high orbit and beyond to give more distant coverage. Some Navy  officers  even  advocate  taking  [Transports](ships-transports-overview.md)  straight  in beside  the  warships  instead  waiting  for  the  defences  to  be suppressed first, happy to trade the loss of a few regiments against crippling [Damage](character-injury.md) to their warships.

Fearful  rebel  worlds  are  unfortunately  much  given  to improving  their  planetary  defences  in  anticipation  of  a  visit from  the  Navy.  Such  heavily-fortified  worlds  have  to  be reduced  by  bombardment  before  they  can  be  approached. Sustained assaults from [Nova Cannons](weapons-nova-cannons.md), [Torpedoes](weapons-torpedoes.md) and [Attack Craft](attack-craft-rules.md)  are  used  to  knock  out  defence  platforms  and  monitors from a safe distance. The ensuing battles between swarms of opposing attack craft are often as spectacular as they are deadly .

A planetary invasion is likely to be a lengthy engagement for  a  warship  one  way  or  another,  with  weeks  quickly dragging  out  into  months  and  years  of  stubborn  ground fighting.  Maintaining  morale  among  the  crew  can  become difficult as they find no respite or opportunities for leave on the war-torn planet so close below. Instead they must sit in orbit and mercilessly unleash their thunder on cities and hives day after day, each salvo corroding their souls a little more.



*Source:* `Battle Fleet of the Koronus, page 53`
