Common to all [Navigators](psychic-psyker-types.md) is the 'warp' or 'third' eye. It almost always  manifests  as  a  literal  [Mutation](character-mutations-list.md)  they  bear  upon  their foreheads, although in some cases trepanning and a cybernetic shutter implant made during adolescence will be needed to affect the full release of their power. This eye is what gives a Navigator his power to gaze into [The Warp](warp-imperial-space-travel.md) and guide ships through its turbulent currents and storms-more than a mere additional sensory appendage, the third eye is the source of all  a  Navigator's  power  and  their  link  to  the  Immaterium. Through this eye they can see directly into [The Warp](warp-imperial-space-travel.md), and when their power is honed, pierce material barriers and disguises, even delve into the souls of men. They can also use this eye to read the currents of the warp-its ebb and flow-and through this understanding subtly alter it, causing ripples that can be felt  within  the  Materium  of  real  space  itself.  In  addition  to these lesser powers, the gaze of a Navigator's warp eye when fully opened can kill, its baleful light sheering the very souls from those that look upon it, extinguishing them forever in a moment of blazing madness and agony.

The warp eye is also the [Navigators](psychic-psyker-types.md)' most obvious [Mutation](character-mutations-list.md) but often not their only one. It marks them out as a mutant and divergent from the greater masses of humanity, and whilst their position, wealth and bearing serve to protect them frompersecution  (at  least  most  of  the  time),  Navigators  are  still feared and distrusted by many for their gifts, and not without cause. For this reason, Navigators tend to cloister themselves away from other people, seek the protection of bodyguards, and  use  hoods  and  cowls  to  hide  their  warp  eye  when in public.



*Source:* `Roguetrader Corerulebook, page 175`
