Through his understanding of the Empyrean, the Navigator calls upon the full fury of the warp and brings forth a scouring tide of warp energy that jets forth from his fully-opened third eye. Flesh is seared to the bone, and vital fluids boil away as the victim's soul is consumed in the attack. So powerful is this energy it can distort and even damage physical matter. However, using this power can jeopardise the Navigator as well; and is generally only used as a last resort as the power of the warp comes flooding through into real space consuming all in its path.

Novice: The  Navigator  makes  an Opposed Willpower Test with anyone looking into his Warp Eye (see ROGUE TRADER page 180 for rules on how to avoid a Navigator's Gaze) within 15 metres. Make a single test for the Navigator and compare it to the results of each person gazing into his Warp Eye. Should the Navigator achieve more degrees of  success,  the  opponent  suffers  1d10+  the  Navigator's unmodified Willpower Bonus in Energy damage, plus an additional 1d10 for every degree of success. This damage is not reduced by armour (unless warded), but the opponent may use his Toughness Bonus.

Adept: As per Novice, however the damage is increased to 1d10+ double the Navigator's unmodified Willpower Bonus in Energy Damage, plus an additional 1d10 for every degree of Success. In addition, this ability can also damage non-living beings,  and  inanimate  objects  (bulkheads,  structures,  etc). Because of the taxing nature of this power, using it causes the Navigator to suffer one Wound and one level of Fatigue. Should the Navigator fail the Willpower Test by one degree or more, he suffers two Wounds instead of one.

Master: At  this  level,  the  Navigator  is  able  to  unleash  the full  fury  of  the  warp.  An  angry  red  tide  of  energy  boils out from his Warp Eye. Damage is dealt as the Adept level, however with this full force, it is almost impossible to avoid the overwhelming gaze of the Navigator. Targets do not get any bonus to their Test for looking away, as the roiling tides of the warp surround them. Again, due to the taxing nature of using this power, the Navigator suffers 1d5 Wounds (not reduced by armour or Toughness) and is unable to make use of any other Navigator powers until the end of the combat. Should the Navigator fail the Willpower Test by one degree or more, he suffers 1d10 levels of Fatigue, which may well render him unconscious.



*Source:* `Into the Storm, page 192`
