Many  officers  in  the  Navy  rise  no  higher  than  Lieutenant. System-defence ships and monitors occasionally fall under the direct command of a lieutenant. It is more common for them to be found acting as second-in-command aboard escort-class ships, as part of the vast [Bridge](starship-anatomy-detailed.md) crew found on a capital vessel, or in an [Attack Craft](attack-craft-rules.md) squadron acting as flight leader. A lieutenant is  regarded  as  having  true  potential  and  the  opportunity  for greatness. Some of the most renowned lord-[Captains](imperial-starship-types.md) first began to forge their reputation by taking over the helm of the ship when their [Commander](rank-commander.md) was killed or injured.

There  are  actually  several  different  ranks  of  lieutenants, ranging from lowly sub-lieutenants or ensigns just promoted from [Midshipman](rank-midshipman.md) to the flag-lieutenant (or lord-lieutenant) who serves as the executive officer aboard a ship of the line. In Battlefleet Calixis, the lowest ranking lieutenants are often referred to as ensigns, and given minor responsibilities such as commanding [Small Craft](attack-craft-small-craft.md), boarding parties, or press gangs. They are often paired with a senior warrant officer to provide valuable guidance, and in the eyes of their superiors and the crew they're treated with respect for their rank, and caution due to their lack of skill and experience.

If they succeed, a lieutenant can expect to [Advance](combat-advance-action.md) through the ranks as a third, second, and finally first lieutenant, steadily gaining  more  responsibilities  as  he  does  so.  Eventually,  he may rise to the rank of flag or lord lieutenant, the  second in  command aboard a capital ship. If he can prove himself to be a resourceful and competent officer, he may eventually be  promoted  to  commander,  and  given  the  chance  to  take command of his own vessel. However, many lieutenants never make that leap, and spend their days serving as valued junior officers on a voidship's bridge.



*Source:* `Battle Fleet of the Koronus, page 70`
