Commissioned  officers are the highest ranks of  Navy officers  and  usually  can  only  be  created  by  the  Battlefleet administratum.  In  the  Calixis  Sector,  a  certain  number  of officers are generated by the 'commissions' issued to planetary governors and Schola Progenium worlds each year to fulfil. Each commission is for a single child of 'good character' to attend Port Wrath, there to become a [Midshipman](rank-midshipman.md) in the Holy Imperial Navy. Once they arrive, they may serve aboard Port Wrath for years waiting for a ship, or leave mere days after they set foot on the station.

Commissions issued to planetary governors are commonly sold to noble families or bestowed in a politically expedient fashion to reward a trusted noble or remove a troublesome sibling. A [Career](chargen-stage2-origin-path.md) in The Imperial Navy is viewed as a glorious, honourable and very probably fatal enterprise by noble houses, a sacrifice that enhances the family's prestige immeasurably. The Schola Progenium, on the other hand, sends their best charges  to  serve,  especially  those  with  naval  heritage.  The rivalry  between  the  arrogant  offspring  of  nobility  and  the earnest young orphans of the Scholas is legendary.

A  good  portion  of  midshipman  join  the  Imperial  Navy through  a  more  informal  system  of  patronage.  It  is  not uncommon for a Naval [Captain](rank-captain.md) to take on a noble's son or daughter as a midshipman at their family's request. This may be a favour to an old friend, or a means to repay an ancestral debt. However, even in this case, most noble children find the Navy a harsh and uncompromising environment, where most must excel on their merits, or likely perish.



## Subpages
- [Lord High-admiral](rank-lord-high-admiral.md)
- [Lord-admiral](rank-lord-admiral.md)
- [Solar Admiral](rank-solar-admiral.md)
- [Admiral](rank-admiral.md)
- [Vice-admiral](rank-vice-admiral.md)
- [Rear-admiral](rank-rear-admiral.md)
- [Commodore](rank-commodore.md)
- [Lord-captain](rank-lord-captain.md)
- [Captain](rank-captain.md)
- [Commander](rank-commander.md)
- [Lieutenant](rank-lieutenant.md)
- [Midshipman](rank-midshipman.md)

*Source:* `Battle Fleet of the Koronus, page 68`
