## Table 8-1: Machine Spirit Oddities

### Roll Result

- 1 A Nose for Trouble: Something about this ship quivers at the thought of battle, always probing the cosmos for a new victim. Add +5 to the ship's Detection, and reduce this ship's [Armour](armour.md) by 1, due to its many battles. Occasionally, the crew may find themselves in fights they might have preferred to avoid.

Blasphemous Tendencies:

Some unidentifiable aspect of this vessel's spirit resonates sympathetically with the

- 2 Immaterium. [Captains](imperial-starship-types.md) find this ship swims through [The Warp](warp-imperial-space-travel.md) more easily, as if it was more at home there... All Navigation Tests made to pilot this vessel through [The Warp](warp-imperial-space-travel.md) gain a +15 bonus. However, while aboard the ship, all crew suffer -5 to Willpower based Tests.
- 3 Martial Hubris: The ship has a glorious legacy of warfare and triumphant combats. It is always eager to fight, and unwilling to back down. The ship gains +5 to all Ballistic Skill Tests to fire its [Weapons](weapons-general.md), but suffers -15 on any Pilot (Space Craft) Tests made to [Escape](combat-escape-action.md) [Combat](rules-combat-overview.md).
- 4 Rebellious: This vessel does not suffer authority willingly. At times is seems to take pleasure in interfering with the plans of its masters. During no more than one space [Combat](rules-combat-overview.md) per game session, the GM should randomly select one of the ship's [Components](starship-anatomy-detailed.md) that becomes unpowered until repaired. However, whenever the ship suffers a critical hit (for any reason) roll 1d10. On a 8 or higher, the critical effect is ignored.
- 5 Stoic: The vessel behaves like a beast of burden, plodding but [Reliable](weapons-general.md). Due to its somewhat plodding behaviour, whenever the crew would gain [Profit Factor](economy-wealth-and-acquisitions.md) from an Endeavour, reduce the amount gained by 1. However, whenever one of the ship's Component's becomes damaged or unpowered, roll 1d10. On a 7 or higher, the ship shrugs off the [Damage](character-injury.md) and it is ignored.
- 6 Skittish: The ship fears battle, bucking against its masters when entering the fray. When in combat, reduce the ship's Speed by 1. However, when not in danger, it runs eagerly and fast. Reduce the travel time for any long distance (between stars) voyage by 1d5 weeks, to a minimum of 1.
- 7 Wrothful: The ship's spirit constantly smoulders with anger. In battle, it explodes into a berserker fury, straining and exhausting its systems. During combat, the ship gains +1 Speed and + 7 Manoeuvrability. Out of combat, the ship suffers -1 Speed and -5 to Manoeuvrability and Detection.
- 8 Resolute: There is little in the universe that can stagger this vessel. No matter the foe, it will [Advance](combat-advance-action.md) slowly but surely to meet it. The ship suffers -1 Speed, but gains +3 [Hull](starship-anatomy-detailed.md) Points and grants a +10 bonus to all Repair Tests.
- 9 Adventurous: The vessel is eager to seek new horizons, to turn its bow from civilisation and delve into the [Darkness](combat-special-circumstances.md) of the unknown. When participating in an Endeavour the ship gains +10 Detection, when not participating in an Endeavour it suffers -10 Detection.
- 10 Ancient and Wise: This ship is of a bygone age, having survived many millennia of voyages and adventures. It's hull has weakened over the centuries, but it anticipates the needs of its crew, and will move as one with a competent master. The ship suffers -4 Hull Integrity but gains a +10 bonus to any [Manoeuvre Actions](starship-combat-rules.md) it performs (including out of combat and ramming).

unique.  There  are  two  different  types  of  [Complications](ships-npc-vessels.md). Past Histories offer details about the ship's construction or [Salvage](starship-salvage-rules.md), and the issues that may arise from its past. Machine Spirit  Oddities  describe  the  strange  personality  quirks  the ship's machine spirit has picked up over the millennia. While not 'alive' or even self-aware, anyone who has been aboard a  starship  will  swear  that  they  have  desires  and  fears,  and perform some tasks more willingly than others.

Before creating a ship, the ship's [Captain](rank-captain.md) should roll once on  each  chart  to  determine  which  [Complications](ships-npc-vessels.md)  his  ship suffers from, and note each down on his ship's sheet.

<!-- image -->## Table 8-2: Past Histories

### Roll Result

1

Reliquary of Mars: Somehow, this vessel has been outfitted with ancient archaeo-tech systems from mankind's forgotten past. When constructing this vessel, players must select 1 Archeotech Component of their choice. However, any Tech-Use Tests to repair the ship suffer a -20, due to the highly complex nature of the machinery. Additionally, the tech priests of Mars regard the vessel as holy, or at least having holy [Components](starship-anatomy-detailed.md). Some may petition to visit the vessel, others may want it for themselves.

2 Haunted: Some nameless horror haunts this vessel's past, leaving [Voidsmen](crew-voidsmen.md) to whisper stories of ghosts wandering through the corridors and cabins. Reduce Morale permanently by 10. However, strange premonitions flicker on the [Auger Arrays](starship-essential-components.md), granting a +6 to the ship's Detection. Additionally, all non-crewmembers suffer -5 to Command Tests involving boarding actions or [Hit and Run](starship-combat-rules.md) actions against the haunted vessel. The presence of these spirits may cause many other issues, depending on their origins and how they came to haunt the vessel (something the GM should determine).

3 Emissary of the Imperator: The vessel is a veritable monument to the power and grandeur of the God-Emperor's might. Awe-inspiring and terrible, it lacks subtlety. All Intimidate Tests made by characters from this vessel gain +15, while all other social Skill Tests suffer a -5. These bonuses and penalties only apply if the character is known to be from the vessel. In addition, few will be able to see beyond the symbolism of the vessel-xenos see a threat, faithful Imperial citizens see a symbol of civilisation (or possibly chastisement), and heretics and rebels see a hated foe. Their [Reactions](rules-combat-overview.md) will be coloured accordingly.

4 Wolf in Sheep's [Clothing](equipment-gear.md): Beneath this vessel's unassuming exterior is a dangerous spacefaring predator. The [Captain](rank-captain.md) selects three [Components](starship-anatomy-detailed.md). When scanned or subjected to anything but a thorough internal inspection, these components will either not register on the scans, or appear to be a different Component of the same type. Thus, the ship might hide additional [Armour Plating](starship-supplemental-components.md), or a small macrobattery may be much more powerful than it appears. However, the ship suffers -2 Power to maintain the systems creating the illusion. The ship may also have concealed smuggling compartments, unseen passageways, hidden cogitation-override programming, or other secrets.

- 5 Turbulent Past: Over the years this ship has been used to perform deeds dastardly to some and heroic to others. The GM selects a social group (pirates, heretics, The Imperial Navy, The Inquisition, or inhabitants of an important locale like Footfall). All ship's crew suffer a -20 to social Skill Tests when interacting with that group. The GM then selects a second group naturally opposed to the first. All ship's crew gain +20 to social Skills when interacting with that group. The additional problems that could arise from being hated by a particular group of people are limitless.
- 6 Death Cult: Amongst the low-decks indentured crew, strange perversions of the Imperial Creed have arisen, glorifying death to celebrate the Emperor. Reduce Crew Population permanently by 8. However, reduce all Morale loss from any source by 2, due to the crew's unwavering faith. Additionally, ship officers and members of the Ministorum will have to deal warily with the cult and its leaders. Death cults do produce skilled assassins...
- 7 Wrested from a Space Hulk: The ship has been recovered from a space hulk - a mass of wrecked ships that drifts intermittently through [The Warp](warp-imperial-space-travel.md) and realspace. The ship is very old (and thus of high quality), but those who know of its origins whisper that it is cursed. The ship gains +1 [Armour](armour.md), +1 Speed, and +3 Manoeuvrability. However, every time the crew suffers a Misfortune, the GM rolls twice and chooses the worse of the two. The curse can have many other effects as well, many ill, but a truly skilled Rogue Trader can turn any situation to profit...

8 Temperamental Warp Engine: The ship suffers a flutter in its [Warp Engines](warp-engines-components.md), an inconsistency that no amount of maintenance or supplication can eliminate. Whenever the ship travels through the immaterium, the GM should roll 1d10. On a 6 or lower, the journey takes an additional 1d5 weeks, on a 7 or higher, the travel time is reduced 1d5 weeks instead (potentially causing the ship to arrive before it left!). However, once in a great while, the ship will leave [The Warp](warp-imperial-space-travel.md) to unexpectedly find itself someplace other than its intended destination. (This is at the GM's discretion, but should not happen on a regular basis.)

- 9 Finances in Arrears: The ship was purchased with borrowed funds. The money could have come from a [Criminal](chargen-stage2-origin-path.md) organisation, influential noble, or even a member of the Inquisition-but no matter the source, the debt must be repaid. Whenever the crew attempts to complete an Endeavour's Objective, they must accumulate an additional 50 Acheivement Points to accomplish the Objective. However, the ship's financier supports his investment by providing aid and information. All crew can count their financier as a [Reliable](weapons-general.md) contact. Additionally, their creditor may require the crew to perform specific missions that they are in no position to refuse.

10 Xenophilous: Through dealings with some xenos race, this vessel has been outfitted with examples of their blasphemous technology. When constructing this vessel, players must select 1 Xenotech Component of their choice. However, any Tech-Use Tests to repair the ship suffer a -30, due to the strange and blasphemous nature of the machinery. Should the character attempting the repairs have Forbidden Lore (Xenos), the penalty is only -10. Also, the forces of the Ordo Xenos have an interest in the vessel and who controls it.## The Ship as a Character

[Complications](ships-npc-vessels.md) are designed to personalize a starship, as well as make it something more than just a collection of statistics on a sheet of paper. A good captain thinks of his ship as something alive, and will love and hate it, cajole, threaten, and praise it in turn, just as he might any one of his 'flesh and blood' companions.

If the GM wishes the player's starship to have a specific 'personality,' he should feel free to select from the [Complications](ships-npc-vessels.md) charts, rather than having his players roll. Additionally, the Past Histories include suggestions for plot hooks and and situations the players may find themselves in due to what has happened to their starship before they came into possession of it.

As far as the ship's 'personality,' the Machine Spirit Oddities should be treated as broad guidelines. GMs shouldn't feel limited to the benefits and drawbacks listed in the charts, and are free to come up with additional complications that fit the ship's character. Perhaps a vessel that has A Nose for Trouble occasionally scans nearby vessels as if searching for weaknesses (even if they are friendly), or a ship that is Ancient and Wise flares its retros when on a collision course with an asteroid, warning the helmsman to danger he did not notice. Of course, the ship is not sentient, and will not strike up conversations with players or send them messages telling them what to do. But there should be some spark in its hull, a bit of something beyond a mere machine...

*Source:* `Roguetrader Corerulebook, pages 198–200`
