The most important bits  of  information  for  a  player of daRk  HeResy to  know  about Rogue  TRadeR is that they both use the same core mechanics and take place  in  the  same  universe.  There  are  some  themerelated  differences  in  the  rules  between  both  games (for  instance, Rogue TRadeR features  starships!)  but daRk HeResy players should feel right at home with the way the game itself works.

Characters  from daRk  HeResy can  easily  join a Rogue  TRadeR [Campaign](rules-campaign.md)  using  the  following guidelines. After all, it is only natural for The Inquisition to take an interest in the affairs of a Rogue Trader for many reasons, among which is the fact that he may be the first to encounter an alien, heretic, or [Daemonic](character-traits.md)  [Influence](economy-influence-rules.md)  outside  the  Imperium's  borders! daRk HeResy characters may be assigned to a Rogue Trader  ship  by  their  Inquisitor  in  order  to  monitor what  occurs  outside  the  Imperium's  boundaries,  or possibly they may be sent to interfere with a particular xenos race or heretical cult that the Rogue Trader is very likely to encounter. Perhaps the Inquisitor himself has  ensconced  himself  in  luxurious  quarters  aboard the  Rogue  Trader's  ship  and  his  Acolytes  have  been commanded  to  work  alongside  the  Rogue  Trader whilst the Inquisitor attends to his work 'off-camera.' These are merely some of the many possibilities!

It is important to note that Rogue  TRadeR characters begin at a higher power level than startingout daRk HeResy characters. A Rank 1 character in Rogue TRadeR is roughly equivalent to a Dark Heresy character that has spent 5,000 xp on advances. This means, for [Example](rules-tests.md), that it would be appropriate for a daRk HeResy character who has spent 5,000-5,500 xp  to  join  a  beginning  group  of Rogue  TRadeR characters, or for a Rank 2 Rogue TRadeR character to join a group of daRk HeResy Acolytes who have spent 6,500-7,000 xp.



*Source:* `Roguetrader Corerulebook, page 35`
