The only means of communicating over interstellar distances is afforded by the [Astropaths](psychic-psyker-types.md). [Astropaths](psychic-psyker-types.md) are capable of sending telepathic messages across space, and they can receive messages sent by other Astropaths if their minds are correctly attuned.

The need for Astropaths is enormous. They are a common sight  in  the  Imperium  and  are  easily  distinguished  by  their flowing,  hooded  robes.  They  do  not  mingle  with  ordinary men  except  when  duty  dictates,  and  the  privacy  of  their sanctums on worlds and aboard ships are sacrosanct areas made inviolable by Imperial law . Astropaths serve in the Fleet as shipboard  and  planetary  communicators.  They  also  serve  in  The Imperial Guard, The Inquisition, The Adeptus Ministorum, the Space  Marines,  and  throughout  the  Adeptus  Administratum. Confidentiality can still be assured, as an Astropath need not understand a message to transmit it. In this way, with various secret languages, codes, and ciphers, covert [Orders](combat-orders.md) and other sensitive information can be passed across the galaxy without anyone  other  than  the  intended  recipient  understanding  its contents.

The  Imperial  Commanders  of  distant  worlds  must  have Astropaths  if  they  are  to  communicate  with  the  rest  of  the Imperium. Similarly,  Astropaths  are  an  essential  part  of  civilian life,  working  for  commercial  shippers  and  anywhere where interstellar communication is needed. The vast body of The Adeptus Astra Telepathica makes up a network covering almost the entire Imperium, facilitating the transfer of information fromone end of the galaxy to the other. Although the range of a single Astropath is not vast, only several light years, by means of re-broadcasting a message via a relay of other Astropaths, a communication can theoretically be sent from one corner of the Imperium to the farthest flung reaches.

However,  as  with  everything  associated  with  the  warp, astrotelepathy  is  an  erratic  process.  Like  the  Astronomican, an astropathic message is affected by the currents and storms of [The Warp](warp-imperial-space-travel.md). Messages may take days or weeks to traverse the distance or even wander [Off Course](warp-travel-navigation.md) and be picked up by the wrong receiving Astropath. It has been known for messages to be delayed by many years, even decades, so that a plea for help or a report of a war may only come to light long after any aid would be useful or a [Campaign](rules-campaign.md) has been lost.

No ordinary psyker could transmit a message through [The Warp](warp-imperial-space-travel.md), nor could he receive a telepathic message over such vast distances. Astropaths only gain this ability as a result of their many  years  training,  culminating  in  a  special  ritual  which combines some of the Emperor's own power with their own. This ritual,  known as Soul Binding, brings the mind of the psyker close to the psychic greatness of the Emperor. In the process, some of the Emperor's vast energy is transferred to the Astropath.

The transference of energy is traumatic for the psyker-not all survive despite years of preparation, and not all those that survive retain their sanity . Even the survivors suffer [Damage](character-injury.md) to the sensitive nerves of the eyes, so that almost all Astropaths are [Blind](weapons-general.md). In fact, their increased psychic skills tend to make up for this loss of sight, so that they would not appear [Blind](weapons-general.md) were it not for their distorted, sunken, and empty eye sockets.



*Source:* `Roguetrader Corerulebook, page 310`
