Voidships  in  low  orbit  can  prove  to  be  an  incredibly  valuable  asset  to  soldiers  on  the  ground  through  punishing planetary bombardments. The [Damage](character-injury.md) done and area affected by a Planetary Bombardment depends on the type of weapon used. Each type of weapon, [Macrobatteries](starship-supplemental-components.md) and lance [Weapons](weapons-general.md), deals two different amounts of damage, one to large units and one to individuals and vehicles.

Large units caught up in a planetary bombardment lose large amounts of Unit Strength as dozens or hundreds of their personnel are snuffed out in an instant.  A  unit  that  survives  a  Planetary  Bombardment  immediately  breaks  and  flees  the battlefield unless there is an embedded Explorer who makes a successful Arduous (-40) Command Test to get the survivors under control. Anyone caught in a Planetary Bombardment takes damage as normal and with the usual benefits of [Armour](armour.md), [Cover](combat-special-circumstances.md), and the individual's Toughness Bonus. This damage cannot be dodged or parried. If they are not killed outright, they are surely at death's door and will need immediate [Medical Attention](character-healing.md) if they are to survive. The GM should also feel free to apply other conditions or effects, such as deafness, [Mental Trauma](character-fear-and-damnation.md), or permanent crippling, to the survivors as he sees fit.

- Lance Weapons: When used in a planetary bombardment, the initial impact area of a lance weapon is relatively small, typically no more than a few hundred metres. Anything directly hit by a lance is completely annihilated, with no chance of survival. However, the ensuing blast wave affects an area of roughly one square kilometre, setting buildings afire, boiling away bodies of water, and leaving little behind but ashes and molten stone. Damage: Large units 75+5d10 Unit Strength. Individuals and vehicles 5d10+10 E; Pen 6 (unless the individual is within the initial impact radius, at which point they die, and must spend a Fate Point).
- Macrobatteries: Macrobatteries saturate their target with massive, hab-sized artillery [Shells](weapons-ammunition.md), missiles, seething plasma energy, or crackling las beams. Like a lance, each separate shell or energy blast affects a relatively small area of little more than a few dozen metres across, and anything directly hit is completely destroyed. However, the sheer volume of fire and the ensuing kiloton explosions, raging plasma fires, and hellish blast waves affects everything within ten square kilometres. Damage: Large Units 40+5d10 Unit Strength. Individuals and Vehicles 4d10+5; Pen 4 (unless the individual is within the initial impact radius, at which point they die, and must spend a Fate Point).

Note: The canny player will notice that there is no information supplied regarding the use of virus bombs, cyclonic [Torpedoes](weapons-torpedoes.md), and other Exterminatus weapons fielded by the Imperium. These types of weapon are outside the scope of these rules, and typically beyond the grasp of even the wealthiest Rogue Trader dynasty.

themselves and their machines to the limit to increase their movement. With a successful Challenging (+0) Toughness Test , a unit can double the number of kilometres it can move in  one  Strategic  Turn.  Once  they  get  where  they're  going however, the unit is fatigued and suffers a -10 modifier to all Tests and roll 3 less damage dice until they rest for at least one Strategic Turn.



*Source:* `Battle Fleet of the Koronus, page 134`
