Imperial Navy  intelligence tentatively classes the larger Stryxian vessels as 'Xebecs,' with the smaller vessels referred to as 'caravan vessels.' It is unusual to place an entire xenos race's ships into two  classes,  but  Stryxian  vessels  defy established classification.

In appearance, Stryxis Xebecs vary tremendously. They are caravan vessels in the most literal sense of the word. Each Xebec consists of a vessel (usually a bulk transport, although [Raiders](ships-raiders-overview.md), [Frigates](hulls-overview.md), and even [Light Cruisers](ships-light-cruisers-overview.md) have been used) retrofitted with massive  [Plasma](weapons-general.md)  [Drives](components-drives.md).  Stretching  behind  it  on  hundreds  of huge chains are the stripped hulls of additional vessels, as many as four or five to a Xebec. These vessels are almost always of human or another alien manufacture. [The Stryxis](faction-stryxis-overview.md) seem to live in the stripped hulls as well as the lead vessel, though they've also been known to sell a [Hull](starship-anatomy-detailed.md) to an interested party .

The Navy is particularly  perplexed  by  the  baffling  inconsistencies in Stryxian technology; while some Xebecs bear the latest Imperial technologies, others rely on truly primitive spacefaring techniques, such as the use of centrifugal force to create artificial gravity . There seems to be no logic to Stryxian shipbuilding (such as it is) and it helps cement their reputation as rag-Merchants and scavengers.

Although  Stryxian  Xebecs  appear  to  use  plasma  drives, Explorators who have had the opportunity to observe Stryxis ships are convinced they actually utilise a more potent power source, hidden somewhere in their ship. Many observers have also  speculated  regarding  the  nature  of  Stryxian  warp  travel. They certainly appear to travel through [The Warp](warp-imperial-space-travel.md), though no one is sure how they navigate within it. Some have suggested that they are making short, unguided hops, in the manner of the Chartist [Captains](imperial-starship-types.md), but others point to instances of previously identified  Xebec  caravans  appearing  at  different  ends  of  the Expanse  within  only  a  few  months,  something  humanity can  only  achieve  using  the  Astronomicon  and  [Navigators](psychic-psyker-types.md). Any attempts to ascertain the truth behind this are met with long and conflicting stories from the Stryxis, each and every one undoubtedly a lie. If there is one constant for the Stryxis besides their willingness to trade and [Hatred](talents-descriptions.md) of [The Eldar](faction-eldar-overview.md), it is a universal refusal to reveal secrets about themselves.



*Source:* `Battle Fleet of the Koronus, page 96`
