There  are  five  basic  vehicle  types:  Ground  vehicle,  walker, skimmer/hover, flyer, and spacecraft. There  are  five  basic  vehicle  types:  Ground  vehicle,  walker, skimmer/hover, flyer, and spacecraft.

Ground vehicles commonly use treads or tyres as  their  means  of  locomotion.  They're  as  fast  or manoeuvrable as skimmers, and can't handle rough terrain like a walker, but they're usually reliable, easy to manufacture, and cheap. In the Imperium,  where  skimmer  tech  is  a dying  and  arcane  art  more  than  a science,  ground  vehicles  are  easily the most common. commonly use treads or tyres as  their  means  of  locomotion.  They're  as  fast  or manoeuvrable as skimmers, and can't handle rough terrain like a walker, but they're usually reliable, easy to manufacture, and cheap. In the Imperium,  where  skimmer  tech  is  a dying  and  arcane  art  more  than  a science,  ground  vehicles  are  easily

Walkers are a subtype of ground vehicles that rely on two or more mechanical legs to move. These range from the ubiquitous Imperial Guard Sentinel to the fearsome Dreadnoughts of the Adeptus Astartes. Though they  are  slower  than  most ground vehicles, walkers are  able  to  move  through terrain that would be are a subtype of ground vehicles that rely on two or more mechanical legs to move. These range from the ubiquitous Imperial Guard Sentinel to the fearsome Dreadnoughts of the Adeptus Astartes. Though they  are  slower  than  most ground vehicles, walkers are  able  to  move  through terrain that would be impassable to anything with tyres or treads, as well as climb steep  inclines,  making  them  extremely  useful  on  frontier worlds and military situations.

Skimmer or hover vehicles use vertical jet engines or antigrav technology to 'skim' above the ground. Skimmers are not high altitude vehicles, and not as fast as true flyers. However, since they do not rely on aerodynamics to keep them aloft, they are much more versatile, able to move as quickly or as slowly as needed, make sharp turns, and even hover in place. The Imperial Guard Valkyrie and Space Marine Land Speeder are both skimmers.

Flyers are aircraft that use aerodynamic principles of lift and powerful engines to remain aloft. They must be moving at  least  half  of  their  cruising  speed  at  all  times  other  than takeoffs  or  landings  to  remain  airborne-lest  they  crash into the ground in a ball of fire. This means flyers are not as versatile as skimmers. However they can fly faster, higher, and farther than any other vehicle besides spacecraft.

Spacecraft come in many different shapes and sizes, but the ones dealt with here are on the small end of the spectrum: shuttles and fighter craft. These are used to transport goods and people from a planet into orbit to rendezvous with larger spaceships, or fight other fighter craft in the cold vacuum of the  void.  Spacecraft  are  the  only  vehicles  able  to  leave  the atmosphere of a planet. atmosphere of a planet.

*Source:* `Into the Storm, page 171`
