W hen  creating  a  starship,  players  should  proceed along the following steps: The first step is to select a [Hull](starship-anatomy-detailed.md). A list of [Hulls](hulls-overview.md) is · found on the next few pages, divided by class: transport, raider, [Frigate](starship-anatomy-detailed.md), light cruiser, and cruiser.

- Once  the  players  have  their  hull,  they  roll  on  the · [Complications](ships-npc-vessels.md) charts, gaining one Past Histories Complication and one Machine Spirit Quirks Complication.  Alternatively,  the  GM  can  select  these [Complications](ships-npc-vessels.md) instead.
- Once the Complication has been determined, the players · build their ship. Based on their hull and the drive they select,  they  will  have  a  certain  amount  of  Space  and Power. Based on their Warrant of Trade, they will have a certain amount of Ship Points (see page 33).
- Next, players must select what type of crew their vessel · has. All ships start with a Competent Crew (see Table 8-9: NPC Crew [Ratings](crew-ratings.md) on page 214 ),  with a Skill Level of 30. The cost of the crew is included with the cost of the ship's hull. If players wish to, they can gain an additional 5 Ship Points to spend on their vessel by downgrading their Crew to Incompetent (20). Likewise, they can upgrade their crew to a Crack Crew (40) by spending 5 of their existing Ship Points. They may even upgrade their crew to a Veteran Crew (50) by spending 15 Ship Points.
- Next, the players must select one Essential Component · from each of the Essential Component categories.
- Next, players may select [Supplemental Components](starship-supplemental-components.md). Each ·

Component (Essential or Supplemental) has a Space and Power requirement. The sum total of all the Component's [Requirements](economy-endeavours.md) may not exceed the Space provided by the hull, or power generated by the drive.

- Once  the  starship's  Components  have  been  recorded, · any  benefits  and  drawbacks  should  be  totalled  and,  if necessary, combined.

Note that certain Components can increase a ship's Crew Population or Morale level above 100. This is acceptable, and should set the ship's new maximum level of Crew Population and  Morale.  If  damaged,  a  starship's  Crew  Population  and Morale can be restored back up to these maximums, but not above them.

This may seem strange, since both [Crew Population and Morale](starship-crew-population-morale.md)  are  abstract  representations,  rather  than  a  concrete measurements  of  crewmembers  or  their  loyalty.  However, just consider these Components to be increasing the loyalty of the crew, or the amount of warm bodies aboard the ship, and subsequently making either value slightly more resilient to losses.

## Example

A  ship has the  Haunted  Complication,  reducing  its  Morale permanently  by  10.  However,  the  players  add  Extended  Supply Vaults, increasing its Morale permanently by 1. In the end, the ship's Morale is permanently decreased by 9.



*Source:* `Roguetrader Corerulebook, page 194`
