In contrast with interplanetary vessels, interstellar ships are a rare sight in most star systems. Making the crossing between suns means travelling through warp space with all the perils that entails. A jump of more than a few light years is extremely risky  without  a  Navigator  to  guide  the  ship,  and  any  ship with a Navigator is effectively controlled by the Imperium. Trade charters between stars are strictly regulated, jealously guarded and often hereditary. Most Chartist [Captains](imperial-starship-types.md) spend their  entire  [Career](chargen-stage2-origin-path.md)  piloting  a  single,  well-established  route between two stars. Rogue Traders are those exceptional few granted an open Warrant to move beyond the Imperium and establish new routes.

The events of the Age of Apostasy and the Horus Heresy led  to  rigourous  decrees  forbidding  planetary  governors control  over  interstellar  ships.  Civil  war,  epidemics  and [Corruption](character-corruption.md) can be strictly contained by controlling access to interstellar space flight and so this rests firmly, if distantly, in the hands of The High Lords of Terra.

In  an  organisation  as  monolithic  as  the  Imperium,  plenty of  things  still  fall  through  the  cracks  and  greedy  traders  are notorious for transporting goods and people that they shouldn't. Of course, this is exactly the kind of behaviour that tends to draw the attention of The Inquisition or the Adeptus Arbites.

The difference between interplanetary and interstellar ships is that interstellar  ships  are  fitted  with  a  warp  drive.  This  is  what allows  them  to  push  through  the  thin  membrane  between  the material  universe  and  the  warp.  While  in  the  warp  the  Gellar field  forms  a  teardrop  of  reality  around  the  ship  to  propel  it and prevents the surging energies within [The Warp](warp-imperial-space-travel.md) from utterly destroying it.

[Warp Drives](starship-anatomy-detailed.md) are large, and proportionate to the vessel they propel, so they are large on a trader or escort, and immense on  an  Imperial  warship.  The  smallest  warp-capable  ships tend be at least the [Size](character-traits.md) of the largest interplanetary vessels, and are usually much larger. As such, it's extremely rare to see a warp-capable ship smaller than a raider or good-sized interplanetary  merchant  hauler,  though  the  Inquisition  and Officio  Assassinorum  are  whispered  have  access  to  smaller, specialised vessels more suited to their needs.

Regardless of its size, the warp drive is always buried in the safest possible location deep in the heart of the ship. The function and operation of warp drives are a closely-guarded secrets of the Adeptus Mechanicus and the Navis Nobilite. A [Warp Drive](warp-drive-rules.md) failure typically signals the doom of the ship, either in quite spectacular fashion or in the form of a long, lingering death adrift in the warp.

*Source:* `Battle Fleet of the Koronus, page 46`
