Air forces are composed of numerous types of atmospheric and trans-atmospheric fighter craft, bombers, and gunships. These  units  perform  missions  as  varied  as  ground  [Attack](combat-attack-rules.md), reconnaissance,  air  superiority  and  bombing,  and  make  up a  pivotal  part  of  any  serious  army.  Air  forces  tend  to  be hideously  expensive  to  field,  require  massive  amounts  of support [Staff](weapons-general.md) and facilities, and are peopled by highly-trained, highly-specialised,  arrogant  niche  officers  who  are  good  at only  one  thing:  [Flying](combat-movement.md).  Only  planets  of  technological  and modern Tech Levels can field air units.

Light Air Forces: Light  air  units  are  composed  of  lightweight, lightly armed, and very fast aircraft like interceptors, reconnaissance  aircraft,  and  fast,  unarmed  [Transports](ships-transports-overview.md).  The Lightning of The Imperial Navy is a good [Example](rules-tests.md) of a light air forces unit. Light air units have a range of one kilometre for guns and five kilometres for ordnance.

Medium Air Forces: Medium air units are the workhorse units in air circles. They are composed of [Attack Craft](attack-craft-rules.md) like the Lightning Strike, air superiority fighters like the Thunderbolt, and heavily armed transports and gunships like the Vulture and Valkyrie. These units typically take on ground support and air superiority roles, and are essential parts of any fighting force.  Medium  air  units  have  a  range  of  one  kilometre  for guns and 10 kilometres for ordnance. and Valkyrie. These units typically take on ground support and air superiority roles, and are essential parts of any fighting force.  Medium  air  units  have  a  range  of  one  kilometre  for guns and 10 kilometres for ordnance.

Heavy Air Forces: Heavy air force units are used to deliver thousands of tonnes of ordnance to targets from high altitudes. These units are typically made up of bombers like the Marauder or super-heavy fighters. Orbital or space-based fighters like the Fury Interceptor and the Starhawk bomber also fall under the auspices of heavy air forces. Heavy air units have a range of one kilometre for guns and 20 kilometres for ordnance. Heavy Air Forces: Heavy air force units are used to deliver thousands of tonnes of ordnance to targets from high altitudes. These units are typically made up of bombers like the Marauder or super-heavy fighters. Orbital or space-based fighters like the Fury Interceptor and the Starhawk bomber also fall under the auspices of heavy air forces. Heavy air units have a range of one kilometre for guns and 20 kilometres for ordnance.



*Source:* `Battle Fleet of the Koronus, page 124`
