Infantry  is  the  backbone  of  any  armed  force.  Tasked  with taking the fight directly to the enemy, infantrymen fight largely on foot, with small arms and crew served [Weapons](weapons-general.md). Infantry are  the  most  common type of military unit. They are armed and armoured as is common on their homeworld (an Imperial Guardsman will likely be armed with a lasgun and [Flak Armour](armour.md#flak-armour), while a feudal warrior may have a sword and plate mail). While the infantry is looked down upon by almost everyone else, well trained  and  well  equipped  infantry  companies  tend  to  have an esprit de corps that is hard to crush. Infantry units can be light, medium, or heavy depending on their composition and equipment, and can come from worlds of any tech level.

Light Infantry: Light infantry are highly mobile units whose basic  mission  is  to  provide  a  skirmishing  screen  ahead  of medium and heavy infantry to [Delay](rules-combat-overview.md) an enemy [Advance](combat-advance-action.md). Fast and lightly armed, they also operate in numerous speciality roles where the use of medium and heavy infantry is uncalled for. Light infantry units can include mountain troops, jungle fighters, skirmishers, [Raiders](ships-raiders-overview.md), scouts, guerilla fighters, special operations units, and drop troops.

Medium Infantry: Medium infantry are the average, workaday  infantry  units  that  make  up  the  bulk of  the  Imperial  Guard.  They  are  the  tip  of the Imperium's  spear, and  despite theirreputations as conscripts and dull cretins, the Imperium would quickly fall  apart  without  their  strong  backs  and  sharp  eyes. Perhaps the most infamous medium infantry units are the penal legions,  divisions  of  condemned  convicts  from  a  thousand penal  worlds.  Despite  the  fact  that  they  typically  operate  in platoon  [Size](character-traits.md)  or  smaller  units,  engineers  and  sappers  are  also considered medium infantry thanks to their heavier equipment

load-outs and tendency to carry kilos of explosives everywhere. Heavy Infantry: Heavy infantry units are the most heavily armed and armoured units in the infantry. They field heavy weapons, can deal and take massive amounts of punishment, and are typically used to break massive formations and take and hold particularly hard targets. Grenadiers, heavily armed veteran  infantry  wearing  carapace  armour  and  bearing  a plethora of grenade launchers, plasma guns, meltaguns, and flamers,  are  one  type.  Dedicated  anti-armour  troops  with missile launchers and lascannons are another.



*Source:* `Battle Fleet of the Koronus, page 122`
