Attacking  vehicles  is  very  similar  to  attacking  people  or creatures. When firing at a vehicle, players should determine which side of the vehicle they can see, and which they can hit. The side facing the players directly is the one they can shoot  (subject  to  the  GM's  judgement).  Once  they  have determined  the  side  they  are  attacking,  players  roll  to  hit, using Weapon Skill or Ballistic Skill as appropriate to their weapon. Remember, vehicles have size modifiers, which will most likely provide a bonus to hit.

Vehicles  have  two  primary  defensive  characteristicsArmour  Points  (also  referred  to  as  AP  or  Armour)  and Structural Integrity (also referred to as SI or Integrity).

Armour represents both the innate hardness of the materials used to construct a vehicle, as well as the physical protection built into a vehicle to defend against attacks. The adamantium hull of a Fury, for example, is extremely good Armour, while the ramshackle hull of an Ork Truk is extremely poor Armour. Armour works in the same manner as the armour of a person or  creature.  When  shooting  at  a  vehicle,  roll  damage  then subtract the number of Armour Points (AP). Be sure to take the weapon's Penetration value into account as well.

The remaining damage is applied to the vehicle's Integrity. Integrity  represents  how  solidly  a  vehicle  is  constructed, the number of redundant and backup systems built into it, and how many hits a vehicle can take before exploding in a  ball  of  fire.  In  game  terms,  Structural  Integrity  functions in the same manner as Wounds do for a person or creature. When a vehicle has sustained an amount of damage equal to its Integrity, any additional damage is applied to the vehicle Critical Chart (Table 5-2). Like the Critical Hit Charts for individuals in the Core Rulebook, any results on the Critical Hit chart are cumulative. For example, if a vehicle takes two damage after already sustaining damage equal to its Structural Integrity, it will suffer the '2' result on the Critical Hit Chart. If in a later turn, the vehicle takes four more damage, it will suffer a '6' result on the Critical Hit Chart.

Attacks against vehicles also benefit from the Righteous Fury  rules.  Righteous  Fury  against  vehicles  is  generated  in the same manner as against individuals-if an Explorer rolls a ten on a damage die against the vehicle, then confirms the attack by succeeding on a subsequent Ballistic Skill Test, he generates Righteous Fury. However, Righteous Fury affects vehicles differently than it does creatures or individuals. If an Explorer generates Righteous Fury and confirms it against a vehicle, instead of rolling an additional die of damage, he  rolls  1d5  on  the  Vehicle  Critical  Hit  Chart, and applies  the  result  to  the  vehicle.  Note  that although the vehicle suffers the results of the roll, it does not count as having sustained

*Source:* `Into the Storm, page 178`
