Pilot Operated Linked Weaponry: All weapons classified as 'Pilot-operated' may all be fired by the pilot as one shooting action, at targets no more than one AU apart. Roll for hits and damage separately with each weapon.

Spacecraft: This vehicle may exit the atmosphere. While in the atmosphere it may operate as a skimmer or flyer at the pilot's choice. It gains all benefits and drawbacks of skimmers and flyers. If operating as a flyer, it must be moving at least half its cruising speed at all times lest it begin a terminal dive to the earth below . In either case, if it becomes completely immobilised due to damage, count the vehicle as destroyed instead as it crashes to the ground (or begins to fall out of the sky in a terminal dive).

Availability:

Extremely Rare

Reinforced Hull: When a vehicle with a Reinforced Hull receives a Critical Hit, halve the result, rounding up. This quality does not affect rolls on the Critical Hit chart generated by Righteous Fury.## Weapons

Although a Rogue Trader's ship can orbit above a planet and take in its entirety with a single augur-scan, often this is insufficient to discover a world's secrets. To take a closer look, Rogue Traders in the Koronus Expanse employ vehicles like the Chiropteran Scout, produced on Scintilla. Small, poorly armoured, and unarmed, the Chiropteran is fast, manoeuvrable, and bristling with long-range auger arrays. When expecting trouble, which is most of the time, a Chiropteran is typically escorted by a Gun-cutter or fighter craft. discover a world's secrets. To take a closer look, Rogue Traders in the Koronus Expanse employ vehicles like the Chiropteran Scout, produced on Scintilla. Small, poorly armoured, and unarmed, the Chiropteran is fast, manoeuvrable, and bristling with long-range auger arrays. When expecting trouble, which is most of the time, a Chiropteran is typically escorted by a Gun-cutter or fighter craft.

Type:

Flyer

Tactical Speed:

30 m/ 16 AUs

Cruising Speed:

1,200 kph

Manoeuvrability:

+10

Structural Integrity: 20

Size:

Enormous

Armour:

Front 20, Side 20, Rear 20 Front 20, Side 20, Rear 20

Crew:

Pilot, Co-Pilot (who also serves as Auger Operator) Pilot, Co-Pilot (who also serves as Auger Operator)

Carrying Capacity: None

## Special Rules

None



*Source:* `Battle Fleet of the Koronus, pages 182–183`
