Repairing  damaged  vehicles  is  usually  accomplished  using the Tech Use Skill. If a vehicle has suffered an Immobilised or Penetrating Hit critical, a character can spend 1d5 hours and make a Challenging (+0)Tech Use Test to restore it to operational status (as long as he has the proper tools and supplies!). Each additional success will reduce the repair time by one hour, to a minimum of one. Damaged weapons are also sometimes repairable as well. Before attempting to repair a damaged weapon, roll 1d10. On a 5 or lower, the weapon is too badly damaged to be repaired, and must be replaced.

Repairing vehicles also restores half of their Integrity as long as the individual or individuals are working in a decently equipped  repair  shop  and  devote  an  additional  1d5  days to repairs, or all of the vehicle's Integrity if the individuals devote an additional 2d5 days to repairs.## Weapons

Any  pilot  or  driver  knows  too  well  the  risks  associated  with  pushing  a  vehicle  to  its  limits,  and  one  of  the  most spectacular (and deadly) risks is plowing into a nearby building, bystanders, or other vehicle. Crashes can range from minor accidents with shaken passengers and cosmetic damage, to a vehicle flipping end over end before exploding in a massive ball of burning promethium.

When a vehicle-or skimmer travelling 10 metres or less above the ground-crashes, there are several potential results. These results primarily depend on how fast the vehicle was travelling and what it hit when it crashed.

- If the distance the vehicle moved (or was attempting to move) during the turn it crashed was equal to its Tactical Speed or less, the vehicle moves half the distance it was attempting to travel in the direction it is currently facing (the GM can chose a different direction if he chooses, based on the momentum or actions of the vehicle). The vehicle comes to a complete stop. Roll 1d5 on the Critical Hit table, and the vehicle suffers that Critical Result. If the vehicle hits an object with AP, such as a wall, tree, or other vehicle (or even someone wearing Power Armour) the vehicle behaves as having rammed them while moving at its Tactical Speed (this may cause an additional Critical Hit). At the GM's discretion, the object may arrest the vehicle's forward movement.
- If the distance the vehicle moved (or was attempting to move) is more than its Tactical Speed, the GM determines the direction the vehicle is travelling, measures a distance in that direction equal to its Tactical Speed, then scatters 1d10 metres in a random direction (page 248 of ROGUE TRADER ). This is the spot at which the vehicle ends up after it crashes. The vehicle comes to a complete stop. Roll 1d10 on the Critical Hit table, the vehicle suffers that Critical Hit. If the vehicle hits an object with AP, such as a wall, tree, or other vehicle (or even someone wearing Power Armour) the vehicle behaves as having rammed it while moving at twice its Tactical Speed (this may cause an additional Critical Hit). At the GM's discretion, the object may arrest the vehicle's forward movement.
- If a vehicle crashes while moving its Tactical Speed or faster, there is a chance the vehicle rolls. In this case, roll 1d10, on a 6 or higher, the vehicle rolls onto its roof (or if moving fast enough, cartwheels end over end). When rolling for the Critical Hit, add +4 to the roll. If the vehicle survives, it loses half its Structural Integrity, and must be repaired before it can be used again. At the GM's discretion, it may be completely wrecked and unusable, instead.
- If a flyer (or skimmer more than 10 metres in the air) crashes, the results are far worse. The pilot has time to make a single Very Hard (-30) Piloting or Drive Test . If he succeeds, the flyer crash-lands, ploughing a gaping furrow into the ground. The flyer is wrecked, and anyone inside takes 2d10 I damage ignoring Armour, and is stunned for a number of rounds equal to the damage sustained. If the pilot fails the test, the flyer ploughs into the ground and explodes, as per the 10+ result on the Critical Hit chart. Individuals may bail out at the last second, according to the rules, though they will count as falling from whatever altitude the flyer was at the turn before it crashed.

Non-combat damage such as leaking  fuel  lines,  cracked axles, or thrown treads can be repaired using the same system. Depending  on  the  type  of  damage,  however,  the  GM  can decrease or increase the difficulty and time involved in the repairs. Replacing a tire shouldn't take as long as rebuilding a skimmer's thrusters, after all.

## Special Rules

The following pages contain just a few of the vehicles available to enterprising Explorers for their operations and Endeavours. All  of  these  vehicles  are  available  in  the  Koronus  Expanse, although certain vehicles (such as the Ork vehicles) may not have much appeal to human Explorers. The GM can also use these vehicles to equip NPCs and adversaries. The following pages contain just a few of the vehicles available although certain vehicles (such as the Ork vehicles) may not



*Source:* `Battle Fleet of the Koronus, pages 179–180`
