Spacecraft: This vehicle may exit the atmosphere. While in the atmosphere it may operate as a skimmer or flyer at the pilot's choice. It gains all benefits and drawbacks of skimmers and flyers. If operating as a flyer, it must be moving at least half its cruising speed at all times lest it begin a terminal dive to the earth below . In either case, if it becomes completely immobilised due to damage, count the vehicle as destroyed instead as it crashes to the ground (or begins to fall out of the sky in a terminal dive).

Pilot Operated Linked Weaponry: All weapons classified as 'Pilot-operated' may all be fired by the pilot as one shooting action, at targets no more than one AU apart. Roll for hits and damage separately with each weapon.

Availability: Very Rare

Reinforced Hull: When a vehicle with a Reinforced Hull receives a Critical Hit, halve the result, rounding up. This quality does not affect rolls on the Critical Hit chart generated by Righteous Fury.

## Weapons

Halo Barges are mass-haulers, designed to move bulk cargo from a planet's surface into orbit. Large, slow, and unwieldy, their only benefit is that they are both practical and efficient.

Type:

Spacecraft

Tactical Speed:

20 m/ 9 AUs

Cruising Speed:

1,400 kph/ 4 VUs per Strategic Turn in space

Manoeuvrability: -20

Structural Integrity:

40

Size:

Massive

Armour:

Front: 28, Side 24, Rear 24

Crew:

Pilot, Co-Pilot

Carrying Capacity:

40 people, 40 metric tonnes of cargo

## Special Rules

None



*Source:* `Into the Storm, page 184`
