## Naduesh Force Axe

Found  mostly  in  the  ruins  of several ancient dead worlds surrounding  the  Cauldron,  the so-called Inertial Hammers have very long haft, nearly shoulder high (leaving some to  believe  the  xenos  race  that  created  them were taller than normal humans). The head is a dead black colour, flaring into a huge flat striking surface at one end. The other end is surrounded by what are thought to be power cables  and  the  esoteric  engines  that  drive the device. When swung, the head seems to gather  inertial  energy  exponentially,  so  the weapon seems lighter and swings more easily the further it moves. On impact the inertia is transformed into kinetic energy, allowing it to strike  in  a  single  arc  with  enough  concussive force to rupture a tank hull. Found  mostly  in  the  ruins  of several ancient dead worlds surrounding  the  Cauldron,  the so-called Inertial Hammers have very long haft, nearly shoulder high (leaving some to  believe  the  xenos  race  that  created  them were taller than normal humans). The head is a dead black colour, flaring into a huge flat striking surface at one end. The other end is surrounded by what are thought to be power cables  and  the  esoteric  engines  that  drive the device. When swung, the head seems to gather  inertial  energy  exponentially,  so  the weapon seems lighter and swings more easily the further it moves. On impact the inertia is transformed into kinetic energy, allowing it to strike  in  a  single  arc  with  enough  concussive

If  the  user  performs  an  All  Out  Attack Action with this weapon, the weapon deals an additional  1d10+3  I  damage  (for  2d10+10 total). This weapon requires two hands to use. If  the  user  performs  an  All  Out  Attack Action with this weapon, the weapon deals an additional  1d10+3  I  damage  (for  2d10+10 total). This weapon requires two hands to use.

## Naduesh Force Staff

These puissant archeotech weapons are thought  to  date  back  to  the  Dark  Ages  of Technology.  However,  thus  far  they  have only  been  discovered  on  a  long-lost  citycache hidden amongst the ruins of the warThese puissant archeotech weapons are thought  to  date  back  to  the  Dark  Ages  of Technology.  However,  thus  far  they  have only  been  discovered  on  a  long-lost  citycache hidden amongst the ruins of the war-

world of Zayth. The Disciples of Thule seized the majority of the weapons, though a few have found their hands into other members of the Machine Cult in the Koronus Expanse. Glowing with circuit-runes, the ancient tech-relic mounts a suitably  large  hammer  head  covered  with  nano-sized  warp portals which burst open on contact. The impact of the portals creates  intense,  localised  warp  disruptions,  causing  microexplosions  which  devastate  the  enemy.  Like  many  human designs, its visage is intended to intimidate and cower all who would stand before the righteous might of the Imperium and the Machine God. This weapon requires two hands to use. world of Zayth. The Disciples of Thule seized the majority of the weapons, though a few have found their hands into

## Naduesh Force Sword

Also  known as an assassin's  belt,  these  weapons  are  formed from a polymorphic material discovered on several planets near the  Heathen  Stars.  Normally  flexible  like  thick  cloth,  when stimulated by an electrical current the material will stiffen to the consistency of strong metal. Explorers who desire a more unassuming appearance (or a hidden weapon should all their obvious  ones  be  removed)  wear  belts,  sashes,  bandoliers  or other lengths of the material along with an activation grip. Once readied, the weapon can act as a staff or a short sword (if the material is honed to a sharpened edge). While it does offer the element of surprise, should the power cell in the haft fail, surprise quickly turns the other way.| Table 3-5: Naduesh Force Weapons   | Table 3-5: Naduesh Force Weapons   | Table 3-5: Naduesh Force Weapons   | Table 3-5: Naduesh Force Weapons   | Table 3-5: Naduesh Force Weapons   | Table 3-5: Naduesh Force Weapons   | Table 3-5: Naduesh Force Weapons   | Table 3-5: Naduesh Force Weapons   |
|------------------------------------|------------------------------------|------------------------------------|------------------------------------|------------------------------------|------------------------------------|------------------------------------|------------------------------------|
| Name                               | Class                              | Range                              | Dam                                | Pen                                | Special                            | Wt                                 | Availability                       |
| Force Axe                          | Melee                              | ²                                  | 1d10 3 R                           | 3                                  | Force, 8nbalanced                  | 8 kg                               | Near 8nique                        |
| Force Staff                        | Melee                              | ²                                  | 1d10 I                             | 2                                  | Force                              | 2 kg                               | Near 8nique                        |
| Force Sword                        | Melee                              | ²                                  | 1d10 1 R                           | 2                                  | Balanced, Force                    | 5 kg                               | Near 8nique                        |

## Dearest Lady Igraine,

Tech-Priest Explorator teams sifting through the archeotech ruins  of  Naduesh  have  unearthed  numerous  caches  of dazzling  and  disturbing  devices,  including  many  whose nature  and  purpose  is  still  a  mystery.  Given  the  number of  possibly  valuable  items  still  to  be  comprehended  it  is understandable that the finely made but otherwise ordinarylooking swords, axes, and melee weapons were simply put aside.  It  was  not  until  visiting  adept-psykers  of  the  Ordo Xenos  realised  the  true  measure  of  these  weapons  that intensive searches began for more. Further studies seem to indicate these are ancient devices, possibly stemming from the  Dark  Age  of  Technology,  but  the  foul  taint  of  xenos construction cannot be ruled out. It was impossible to keep the discovery secret for long, and these weapons have become a highly-valuable commodity throughout the Expanse, and some raiders attack any vessel that carries them, simply to steal  them  away.  For  many  a  psyker-warrior,  possessing  a Naduesh blade is the mark of true power in both body and mind. For those wishing a more subtle visage, a simple rod or  staff  can  channel  their  power  to  devastating  effect,  as well as focus their abilities to greater levels.

## New Weapon Quality: Force

Favoured  by  the  more  robust  and  physical  psykers,  Force Axes offer tremendous sheer power but little in the way of finesse  or  subtlety .  For  those  that  use  them,  these  weapons aptly indicate their mode of attack, and often their lifestyle as well.

*Source:* `Battle Fleet of the Koronus, pages 126–127`
